# Gnog: Part 3

Vaskan is joining the army and was in the parade being celebrated (he's been picked as one of the heroes of Waterdeep after his role in battle). He'll stay at Goliath Drinks but work for the army out of Waterdeep; Barry & Gerri will take a more active role in the tavern now they're not part-timing on defence of the farms to the East.

Ophithana agrees to take 50% ownership of the ship, but let Gnog et al. keep the rest as insurance of sorts - bank rolling. She's going to share 1/5th each with the officers (except Thandi, where some other arrangement will be sought since Thandi is married to a crew member so there are some crew dynamics to consider). They're sailing out to Elturel, it being a very familiar route now, to help with the treasure shipments as the Hoard gets dug out and redistributed.

Leirol et al have offered that they're there if we need anything; but also there's always work to do for the city, if we want to be involved. For now they'll give us some space for downtime and "processing".

Deni, Gnog and Fee-Ree head to Duskhollow by portal to catch up with people there. Fee-Ree has an item (in the last 6 months) from our cottage so we go there. We appear & the front door is open. It's warm and humid; there are wet rags around on the floor. The windows are all open too. We can hear children running around outside. It's tidy ish, other than the rags. A few wooden buckets/planters have been placed on tables, bookshelves and mantlepieces with plants in them all.

The laughing kids get louder and we see them running past the door. In pursuit is another child - with a donkey head. We hear scrambling sounds and feet on the roof, then braying. Kids giggle. We hear Cedric's voice complaining that going on the roof "is cheating" so they come down (along with a couple of roof tiles!). We go out. Cedric returns to his usual form, the illusion dispelled. A bush wearing a hat. He introduces us to his friends:

* Ceri (girl)
* Mejaan ("may-anne") (boy)

The two kids head off, making a date with Cedric about the fishing hole, meeting at theirs. Cedric shows us inside, he's very proud. He's put down rags for humidity and mushrooms (!) in some areas. We end up sorting out some canvas for that to protect the floor. He shows us a vege garden outside, so we can cook dinner. Blackberries, raspberries, turnips, carrots, leafy greens, Romesco broccoli, sprouts that have bloomed and turn into bushes. He tells us that villagers sometimes help out & take some things from the garden in return.

Fee-Ree casts Mending to fix roof tiles & Deni climbs up and fits them. Fee-Ree gets the kitchen cleaned up. We stay the afternoon & evening, chatting to Cedric & other people around town, including Catsyl & Barris at the tavern. Sending Stone to Eli to check it's OK to visit the grove tomorrow. Deni heads off that evening to catch up at her gran's house and says she'll stay there, and its fine for us to stay with Cedric.

Town reports a strange, cold start to summer & late spring start. Some days it feels like there's a strange hot wind blowing in from the east, clashing from clouds in the north that can bring very cold rain. Hail and sleet sometimes. There's a new magistrate, but they haven't arrived yet. They usually arrive from the South, e.g. sent up from Yartar. A shift in political lines seems evident, though; this time they're from Nesmay. They might reopen one of the old far Northern east-west trails towards Nesmay which could make Duskhollow more important on the Mirabar-Nesmay route. Louisa's idea in concept, but without the deforestation!

Salodan's doing OK. He's been surprisingly helpful and charitable lately, we're told. We visit; the shop is more filled than it was as the roads are busier. Business has been pretty good. As long as the roads aren't iced up, things are decent. He's even settling down - has a new courting partner, Miriam! We buy a Dwarven Stine from Mirabar from him. (Miriam is a dwarf, and he's trying to pick up some new Dwarven things for sale). 

Fee-Ree makes food that evening. Cedric gets various visitors and friends throughout the day - his door is literally always open, tho he shuts them after sunset. We keep chatting & exchanging stores, Cedric sitting on Gnog's lap the whole time. He's very interested in volcanoes and Treants. Asking about where they're from, age and so-on - he's full of questions. He asks about his future - will he become a Treant - and what the future of Duskhollow might be (will it turn into an ancient forest too, some time?) and Gnog keeps trying to answer. Eventually, he falls asleep in Gnog's lap as we're talking.

Gnog carefully places Cedric down in what looks like a bed of straw, with a view of the moonlight. Fee-Ree invites Gnog for a walk through Duskhollow's quiet streets. A warm summer night. Moonlit. Eastern breeze blows; we think that's what we've been told about. The tavern is up ahead - as we walk by we see one table set romantically with a candle, Salodan and Miriam chatting. He's trying his best! We will visit another night and give them space for now.

At the church, the doors are as ever ajar, light inside. Beyond, the inn and the outskirts of town. The field has some tents. Not dwarves this time; Gnog doesn't recognise the design at all. Fee-Ree isn't sure we want to get into this...! Gnog's curiosity gets the better of him. He finds an owl and asks it who is there - it knows. They arrived yesterday but never went into the village. They hunt nearby and that's it. About 8 of them, varied. Most quite big. The owl doesn't really have words for much more. Tusks. Implication is orcs, or half orcs. Not traders. Injured on arrival.

Gnog decides to approach. Saying "hi", 2 of them in the shadows immediately get guarded and tell us to halt. One is a half orc and another a dark skinned human. A third approaches; a female half orc and a shorter cloaked figure that has a different shaped face; maybe a dragonborn. Good persuasion roll & we are invited into a tent. The others seem a bit shocked so we start to disarm, but the one inviting us says there's no need.

The tent is surprisingly large. A female goblin is hunched over a half-orc male who is very badly injured. She eseems to be cutting pieces off him (!) that seem badly infected. It's an unnatural affliction. It's not pleasant for either of them. Apparently, inflicted by infected claws and fangs that aren't healing normally. Healing potions don't work. They emerged about a day's travel from Duskhollow just able to make it with 3 badly injured after being underground - they emerged in fact from the Drow cave that Gnog encountered all that time ago; almost a year now. They encountered strange creatures they didn't recognise and had to keep running - took two days to surface. Demonic, or something. They were on a rescue mission but sadly were too late.

(Female half-orc (barbarian) is Katriona. Goblin (rogue) is called Weelbus. There was even a Kobold - the robed figure - Galraith).

Fee Ree stays to help as best she can (herbalism) and Gnog runs to the church to see if Adwyn has anything that might help. He brings a vial of holy water and follows us back to the tents. None of us have divine magic and Gnog is inwardly cursing that they have no cleric themselves after. He's feeling oddly powerless - despite all his weapons and strength. The holy water reacts badly with the wound - sizzles & steams - proves demonic / necrotic. Doesn't help heal. Of the other two sick people, one is stable; lots of chunks missing tho! Cut out all the "bad flesh". The other two are worse off.

We get word from Eli that she's in town but isn't sure of the location. Gnog dashes off to fetch her. She isn't sure. Might be able to help but needs to commune to find some answers. She has one thing to try right now tho; gets a pouch covered in weird tattoo/blood runes on it, some of which she shares on her own arms. Activates them. Seems then to be "fighting" with one of the wounds, which at least helps slow the spread, for the two bad ones. The third recovering one is healed.

We have to sleep and wait for Eli to figure it out.

Next morning, Eli finds us with reasonable news and some optimism. We go to the tents. They've not really slept much - been on rotation/watch. They offer us some of their food - they make a big breakfast! A meaty, barley soup with hot-stone baked breads. Fee-Ree helps exchange food; Cedric comes along giving them vegetables etc., and they look freaked out (transpires they had a run in with Blights & were reminded of that).

Meanwhile Eli goes to work. Using salves & magic, she manages to kind of expunge the infection from one but it's very tiring work. It's a curse, in fact. (Greater Restoration). Luckily she has just enough energy left for the 2nd person. 2x L1 Cure Wounds to bring them back from the brink, and she's exhausted after that. Deni comes and finds us. We give them a powerful potion of healing & cold resistance as they may be heading (very far) North to check out the weird weather. We get a copper symbol for their group - The Eight Fangs - in return (see Gnog's inventory). Gnog notes that the dark-skinned man is dark, but somehow curiously pale; not undead, but perhaps afflicted by *something* - he has small fangs, but he's not a vampire... Gnog can't figure it out. They resupply a bit, get given more food and tea; and off they go - on foot; they have no horses or carts.

We head back to the grove; Cedric comes along. After about a week in Waterdeep, we spend now about 4 weeks (40 days) with the druids.

Deni reveals that she wants to study at an academy, to learn more about law, not to be a judge or advocate but just because knowledge is important. She's also intending to use connections there to find out more about ways to locate Arxcis. On the third day, with everything she needs gathered, Janvair portals her to Waterdeep.

There is rot to help repair - brought back from the Well, damaging plants - but that's a matter of time. The weather is very strange the whole time; both hot and cold (Riglan's campaign has details). We talk of the future; of how Eli might be a steward over the "tribe" of Gnog, but as Janvair points out, they're already a collective that extends beyond each of our respective circles and it already *is* just a big group of people who will always care for, and look after each other, even if at a distance and unobtrusively. Eli's answers to Gnog's clumsy questions about longevity and continuity are somewhat abstract; she thinks on a longer timescale and can be almost alien for this kind of thing - besides, Gnog knows she wouldn't normally grow attached to short-lived people but she has an attachment to him and, perhaps, some of this awkwardness is derived from avoiding thinking about future pain. Janvair later points out that she's always refused to visit her original people at Evermeet, since she no longer considers them to be hers; she doesn't want to go to the Fey and become essentially immortal; in part, her lycanthropy is a good excuse. A cure apparently exists - it involves killing a unicorn, so understandably, that's not a good plan. Janvair wonders if there might one day nonetheless be a possibility of reconciliation at least Evermeet elves - the Miyeritar, wood elves - even if not living in the Fey permanently, but he'd never push her or coerce her.

Cedric, it transpires, is unusual. Most Treants develop over centuries, gaining wisdom to sentience, but Cedric and his cohorts have been "born" that way. We don't know what is best for him, then; he must find his own way; he's been talking a lot with Janvair and understands he's unusual. He wants to visit Waterdeep - this is exciting, if dangerous, but important for him to develop his own knowledge and wisdom. We'll have to keep him away from criminal hands that might want to study something so rare, but we feel that should be OK, especially with the Hat of Disguise.

It's an eventful stay! There's a large forest fire that breaks out; some tremors now and again; chromatics sometimes fly nearby, but don't attack; plus the weather, of course, is strange. We hear tales of travellers going through Duskhollow talking of giants on the rampage still, so we know the same troubles are still in the North. There are even stories of giants battling others - we hope all is well with Skyreach! - but then on the fourth week **(OVERNIGHT RIGLAN CAMPAIGN DAY 35->36, so roughly 46 days after the war was won)**, there's a dramatic weather change. The weird storm clouds that have persisted for so long above the mountains vanish. We're awaked one night by very loud booming thunder. We climb the big tree in the middle of the grove (with stairs) to the upper boughs and look to the spine, where an almighty storm seems to be happening. It's on a terrifying scale, lightning over 100+ mile distances over the spine. We see within silhouettes of large structures we can't make out within the cloud. This continues for a few minutes then suddenly stops. The clouds kind of burn away (despite it being night). A watch is kept after that just in case, but the night is quiet; in the morning, the storm has stopped and we can see to the mountains beyond the near spine ranges for the first time in around 18 months or so. Very heavy snow cover. The circumstances are strange, but perhaps the curious party we met a few weeks ago managed to solve something - or it solved itself.

We elect to return now to Waterdeep, with Cedric in tow:

* Deni sends excited messages on the sending stone from the tavern that she has a lead.
* Janviar has given us some ideas of people to contact an in particular mentions a druidic city in the High Forest, in case Arxcis is in the Fey or Shadowfell regions. Ancient dragons, too, should be able to help - but probably only the *really* ancient ones.
* The weather change just kind of makes it feel like the right time. Eli comes to find us (Fee Ree and Gnog staying at the hut) with breakfast. A much larger one, she says. We head in. The seer druid with divination powers is there, with Janvair - they look to us and know we're going to leave.

The seer noticed a significant change in the weave, too. We're all a bit worried that the forest is recovering, but more slowly than expected and magic that would normally be able to bring back things that had died off cannot now be revived. Nature is "taking its time". They aren't sure what it means. Perhaps it's just damage to the weave in general after the war. They've heard that this magic still works in the Fey Wild, but not in Feyrun. A few other druid circles say the same thing. Healing works, but maybe not raising dead or anything like that. It might not work. Reversal of necrotic damage or similar doesn't reliably behave.

We bid a hug-laden goodbye, now free of many of the fears of danger that parting used to imply. Fee-Ree casts Teleport, and just like that, we are in the Goliath Drinks.



# CAMPAIGN FIVE
## DAYS 1-3 (Aligns with Riglan day 37-39, and it's roughly the 44th day of Summer)

Cedric and party touring the city like proper tourists.

* First day is just settling into the tavern.
* City of the dead, to show him grass - Cedric wanders around, chatting to trees and peeking into crypts. Turns out they're bigger on the inside than the outside - all this time and we never knew!
* Balthors - every magic item you can think of - to show Cedric a glimpse of what's possible. Unfortunately he picks up *everything* and plays with it, chaos rapidly ensuing, so it's relatively brief visit - 15 minutes or so - but he has fun.
* Fee-Ree wants to show him some of our friends - so we go to see Vajra (on the third day). She's thrilled to meet Cedric - has never met a born-aware Treant before. "Well, shall we head up the hill? Let's go for a wander!" - we realise that it's a kind of not so subtle way to ask questions and test to see what magical abilities he might have, but we don't mind as we're going up to mountaintop and seeing the Griffons; we re-tell Cedric tales of the dragon we once rode from here, and Blagothkus' covert castle arrival. Gnog turns for a moment to ask Garren what he thinks he might be learning - his insight - before remembering that, of course, he isn't here with us. At the hilltop, Cedric sees the sea - of course, he's never seen it before. Vajra conjures a picnic blanket; we sit and chill, watching the ocean. Vajra describes the ocean and how it happens - basically, the hydrological cycle. After a while, Gnog notices that when the sun goes briefly behind a cloud that Cedric is leant against him, tired and falling asleep, so we thank Vajra profusely. A day is still a day to him, as it is to us, even if he'll live for many more of us than we will. She offers to look after him if we're ever leaving the city and he wants to stay behind.
* There's a bit of heart to heart between Vajra and Gnog about why we're back, and how it's been difficult to find purpose after the intensity of the war. She has the school, so recognises she was lucky to be able to get back to a routine. But still, there's a "wind taken out of sales" moment. She does offer any help she might be able to give with searching for Fee Ree's husband. She mentions repositories of useful information - Candlekeep, which Deni would know; Silverymoon, but perhaps the wrong schools of magic; and the elves, for they come from the Fey and may know the paths back. Perhaps the Fey Wild connects to other places.
* She asks Gnog, "How do you know which plane to go to?" - of course, we don't yet; we first need to find a way to determine which plane Arcxid is on, then find a way to travel there, then find a way to pinpoint him. He talks a bit more, and Vajra does say "Getting to another plane - if you know where you're going and you have something from that plane - is as simple as a spell. I could cast it for you, and I imagine you" (looks to Fee-Ree) "could too. But you would need to know where you're going and most importantly you would need something from there, to create a link to that plane."

We carry Cedric back to Goliath Drinks. He wakes up along the way; it's about midday. Gnog puts him down. He turns into a very short 4 foot tall version of Vajra! Fee-Ree encourages him to reconsider. He tries again and turns into someone we don't recognise (a half-orc child).  He says, "What is THAT?" and points to a procession that's heading towards the market. We follow. Some kind of festival is (of course, this is Waterdeep!) going on. People are in bright green and pink robes with streamers and children on ponies throwing flower petals. In the middle looks like a bit of a wedding party; it walks around the market, but the city folk look a little disgruntled at the rather ungainly disturbance! We realise that it must be midsummer.

We spend time explaining the concept of abstract trade and the market. Fee-Ree draws Gnog's attention to the disguised Cedric, whose disguise is jittering a bit as he's so overwhelmed by everything. He had wandered off for a moment and almost lost where we were, too. Gnog asks to pick up Cedric - "OK" - so he does so. Cedric asks to go home, so we head back to the Goliath Drinks there and let him chill out in the tower room where we have lunch. He doesn't mind people, but only when he knows them.

Right when Gnog's formulating an idea to go see a particular friend of his for Cedric - Garren, obviously! - Deni strides in. She's been riding. Light cloak, horse outside. "Ah! You did get my message!" and she gives Gnog and Fee-Ree a hug. "I've missed you both".  She's very nervous to learn Cedric is here, as it's such a risky thing.

We notice as she's speaking that she's a little different now. He's reminded of when he met her a year ago; she's changed a lot. The fire and mistrust is still there; her fierce independence; but she's grown; her eyes have been opened more to the world, and even in her brief time away from us at the academy, she gained even more of her own independence. She stands more assured.

Gnog is glad to see her growing thus, but also a little sad as it's a signal that the future will change - this little tightly knit party of his won't always be here.

Gnog mentions that he's going to see Garren; Deni thinks for a while and goes upstairs, changing into city clothes. Gnog shouts, "Cedric! Come on down!". He ambles down the stairs in bush form. "Deni!" he shouts, and runs over. More hugs - as much as one can a bush.

We head to Helm's Hall, trying a dray with Cedric as another random child this time. We get there, ask politely to go the room where the displays are, and Gnog says:

> Where you are, there am I
> A voice in your mind
> A beat in your heart
> Never too far
> With you always

...and he waits. After a while, Gnog senses an awareness. He asks the others, and they think about it and agree, after a while. It's interesting as Gnog can't quite tell for sure - not as conclusive as he might have hoped! A 'motes Garren' for example. Gnog tries - "Hi Garren! Cedric's come to Waterdeep and we brought him to say hello." There is a distant sense of gratitude. It's more distant. Less of a manifestation and more like a deity. Cedric is watching us and seems to be responding in kind.

There is a sense of questions too; but not ones requiring answers - a question of wellbeing, which is odd - he/it would know how we are given the spiritual level of communication - the nature of the question is more wanting us to share how we are with it. He more or less repeats what he said to Vajra along with mentioning what he'd noticed about Deni. There's a feeling of consolation, like a friend who knows you're sad even if you don't show it.

Towards the end of the strange conversation, an idea is planted in Gnog's head; a suggestion; he knows we're looking for someone, because we're going on a journey; we're not replacing him, don't fear that, don't let it weigh us down. Don't let the past inhibit our future. "Oh, I know; don't worry, it won't - but nice of you to say that!" answers Gnog. The Garren "feeling" is more lucid and directly conversational now, it's grown that way over the course of our stay. It says it might know someone who can help. "You have decisions to make ahead of you; don't be afraid of them. I will be there with you, in fact I think I will always somehow in some way be there, just not like how I used to". Gnog says, "We're probably overdue a chat with your orphans, but who is it we should seek out?" - Garren says that he's set a path in motion such that we will meet. "Thanks, old friend. Speak again some time", finishes Gnog.

This time it doesn't feel like a closure; more like the channel of communication is open but inactive. Gnog wonders if this is what clerics feel?

We head back out to the courtyard head to meet the orphans, spending the next hour or two telling stories, meeting the true Cedric etc. before their afternoon studies, and as we eventually wrap up and leave - Deni says, "That was so strange! I did not expect that at all - he's so caring, asking... Hope that wasn't too boring for you guys? I felt really selfish just talking about myself the whole time, but he was asking so many questions about what I've been up to". Gnog asks Cedric what they talked about - trees, places, interesting forests; Seraphina, the fey wild and what he'd like to do. Garren showed Cedric glimpses of other worlds, of ancient forests, magical forests, beautiful waterfalls, unicorns - he rattles off other things. Fee-Ree leans in and says, "What happened back there?" Gnog asks, "Did you have a conversation too?" - she did. Nobody was sure if they were talking to someone, or themselves at first; but we each thought we were all having the same conversation; and eventually we got things that couldn't have come from within.

It seems we've been helped in the ways we needed to be helped. Personal conversations, of the things that mattered most to us individually.

We realise we never did find out who trapped Garren. Gnog's reminded that he was meant to be a bodyguard... Time flies.

We end up at the Court of the White Bull as Deni wants to get some stuff from there; another new thing, an evolution of mastica brew that's served cold, with milk. Good for summer. A bit less strong too. On the walk back, Deni tells us what she's found.

* Went across a number of academies, starting in Waterdeep; asking around, starting (a law) college after a fashion, quickly transferring to Baldur's Gate, rapidly got bored; too ahead of her in-year cohorts.
* Started asking questions around the significant seedy underbelly of Baldur's Gate. Discovered that there are several different ways to go... The problem is way bigger than we think.
* First, we need to know where he is. And what are we doing for that; wandering the planes? There are hubs, apparently, planes emanating like spokes off a wheel with certain shared planes acting as those hubs. Get to the shared plane, get to the spokes. There are also many of these notional wheels stacked on top of one another.
* She convinced someone to (illegally) copy a book from Candlekeep that shows the layout of the planes, and had to destroy it because the evidence was too damning to risk keeping it, but that's where she learned about these "stacks" of wheels.
* Only around a half dozen hubs, but dozens and dozens of planes off each and each plane can contain multiple layers of worlds.

So:

* Research to see if there's any way to trace where he is.
* Find a way to get to the hubs and back again - there is magic and there are locations even on this plane that can take us there.
* One exists at the High Forest but is extremely hard to get there; it's guarded and no-one is allowed through (the Hall of Ancients). That's apparently a very powerful gate which would open the door to all 6 hubs but that's why it is so heavily guarded. The doors are two-way...
* The astral plane is another well-known hub. Some ships can sail to the astral plane - and we know someone (Morgan) who might be interested in going there.

Narrowing down the search would be key. Fee-Ree has no clear answers from Garren's traces of insight, but they do prove he exists; he's alive; it's nothing concrete. Inscrutable. We need to talk to someone - go back to the crater, too, and use magic to use back into the past to the moment that it happened and trace the rift that opened. (She's obviously not very comfortable with that!) 

Deni says, one last thing:

* There *is* an academy, but we'd need Vajra's help to get into it.
* It spans worlds. It exists on a hub. There are five others.
* She pulls out a piece of paper, and says, "This is another hub" - it's called Sigil; there's a crazy-looking drawing of city with gates opening onto multiple planes. There is a drawing of a face with blades coming out of it in every direction called "The Lady Of Blades" - who runs Sigil. It's outlandish!
* Apparently there's a city at the centre of all of the upper and lower planes that connects them all. Tiamat was rising out of Avernus, which is the first layer of the nine hells. She points at the paper; the nine hells is accessible from Sigil, as is the Abyss, Mt Celestia, Mechanis and other upper, neutral and lower planes. The astral plane, too. So it's a hub that connects to a hub, essentially... The "wheels are stacked on top of one another".
* It is a city with fixed gates and an easy way to traverse the planes. A city must have a map and with a map we could go anywhere; but the lady of blades is apparently - well, Sigil *is one of her ideas*, taken physical form. She's powerful enough to bar entry into Sigil from everyone, all deities; not even a God can enter. What kind of entity is powerful enough to do that?! It's her city; she's the law; she created it.
* Its residents are beings from every plane. Sigil is to the multiverse what Waterdeep is to the Sword Coast.
* No being is ever known to have survived an encounter with the Lady Of Blades. She will have a conversation only for as long as it holds her interest, but when bored she puts the person she's spoken to into an extra-planar maze from which there is no escape.

If it *does* all exist, Deni says, she has a plan. Go North of the Spine of the World, or at least to the Spine - she pulls out more bits of paper, an old clipping from some text - "apparently some expedition believed that an astral ship was found frozen in a glacier in the spine of the world". Within an ice cave apparently. They went to recover it but never returned. Get the ship, get to the astral plane, get to Sigil.

One other thing - if we did get more pieces of the puzzle, we can always go to Candlekeep!

**We elect to head to the Scared Woods in the morning, by portal**.

We spend the rest of the evening catching up. Lots of "Oh my, remember the time that...", in between coming back to snippets of clues and bits of the puzzle and wondering if or how we can put it together. Cedric, as ever, is full of questions no matter how often he hears the stories and as is tradition, falls asleep in Gnog's lap.



## DAY 4 (Riglan 40)

We awake at the Goliath Drinks, the first time in a few weeks that we've all been there together (Garren notwithstanding, sadly). Unusual but nice to have Cedric here, too.

Fee-Ree makes breakfast. Oats and cinnamon, with summer fruits. "All right," she eventually says. "Get everything packed and meet me in the tower."

It takes Gnog a while to dig around through his things and remind himself what he's got. Bags of holding create good hiding places, intentional or otherwise! By the time he gets to the tower, Deni and Fee-Ree are both already there. But he's ready.

Fee-Ree pulls out her locket of her and Arxcis. "Everyone ready?" - she holds a hand of Deni and Gnog, closes her eyes, starts to say a word and - FUP - there's a sense of disorientation and then we appear, just outside the cottage in the Sacred Woods.

It's still strange to Gnog that we can do this sort of thing now - without weeks of travel (Con save: 18+11 - he has no issues; Fee-Ree likewise is fine). Deni turns to one side and throws up (Con save: 2+1!). Good think she's the one with the Decanter Of Endless Water. Cedric is pleased to see the old house, but he's surprised; he didn't walk through a portal, like he had done with Janvair. Fee-Ree explains the magic in simple terms and shows Cedric the locket used as an anchor to the location.

"So how do we go about figuring this out..." muses Fee-Ree.

There's a moment of awkward silence. We're not big on spells. We're not even sure if Garren would've had anything for this.

"What about the elves?" suggests Gnog. The others agree so somewhat ruefully - at the risk of being accused of misuse - he blows one long, and two short blasts on the signal whistle for Paylyc. It's only a few minutes as we look around at the old house until the softest footsteps behind us - "Oh my, I *thought* it was you. You're back! Why are you here? Your friend is gone."

Gnog thinks he means Cedric being gone from the house for a moment but realises it's Garren. That's how they were involved in the first place.

Gnog briefly explains the war and Garren's ascension, but then brings it back to the personal issue at hand; does Paylyc know of anything that might help us trace back the original rift, from the location in which we now stand? Paylyc isn't sure. Time is a difficult one. Divination might be possible. He asks if we know druids? Well, there's Ketmera. Paylyc asks for anything of hers that he could use to try and open a fey path; we don't have any of her own belongings, but she did find, hold onto and eventually return the old amulet that Garren used to be trapped inside. We give it a go using this. We start following some strange route that quickly starts being lined with glowing toadstools; a clearing encircled by them; left turns, left forks, too many lefts to not be going in circles yet not doing so. Eventually we pass carefully through some brambles and see a clearing ahead with an old circle of standing stones atop a small hill. It's still daytime and we hear the distant sound of hooves on the other side of the hill, getting closer; the familiar figure of Ketmera emerges, staff held at her side. Gnog waves.

"Oh! Ah! Hi! I sensed the opening of a fey path. I had no idea who it might be! I was just about to go to bed... I've had a very interesting night watching the passage of the constallations. At this time of year they're quite different. It's great for you to pay a visit! Who's this?" - Paylyc introduces himself. We introduce Cedric too. "Hello! Can I ride you?" he asks - "Sure, why not?" - she picks him up and puts him on her back.

She invites us up and around to the other side of the grove, then starts plucking pieces of summer fruit for us to try (Cedric's fine with sunshine!). It's really interesting to see the grove and stone circle.

As we eat we fill her in on the details of why we're here. Paylyc suggests that we might need her to come along and help with some form of divination at the old house. She doesn't mind doing it now, rather than sleeping and waiting until the night (her morning). Paylyc is happy to guide us back along the fey path, though it'll take a bit longer (Ketmera can only fast travel once a day) - maybe a couple of hours. It is, after all, a long way - Ketmera's grove is south of the High Forest.

It does indeed take a lot longer on the return journey; Gnog is familiar with the strange asymmetry of fey paths. As we walk, we discuss the task at hand in much more detail. Ketmera suggests she might be able to help via Divination magic. Ketmera digs deeper with Fee-Ree about how much she remembers and trying to go through various options about what might be divined. Is the answer within Fee-Ree? If so, something as simple as Greater Restoration might release any blocks in the mind. Sleuthing like detecting magic and identifying might help too, but only if we know what we're identifying. Perhaps it might help identify the plane.

We reach the house again, walking back down into the crater. Fee-Ree looks nervous and looks uneasy. Gnog takes her hand. "We're here through all of this. And if you need to stop at any time, then we stop, and find another way."

We talk about first steps. Greater Restoration seems reasonable; there may be no blocked memory, but there's only one way to find out. Gnog does have 100gp worth of diamonds, but not crushed; fortunately he's got an adamantium weapon and a lot of strength which, thanks to good rolls, create a sufficient diamond powder to use for the spell. With that, it is cast.

A light washes over Fee-Ree for a while. "Is it done?" "Yes. Do you feel any different?" "I don't know... How do we know if that worked?" Gnog suggests taking the memories just before, and stepping slowly forward to see if there's anything new; likewise, thinking about just after the event and thinking backwards. "I don't know," says Fee-Ree. "I know we were having the argument and I feel like there's something there, but how do I grab hold of that memory?" Paylyc gets excited - "I know someone who can help you with that! Come with me, come with me! We need to go to the Nymph's waterfall. Seraphina is amazing with charms!"

Well then, off we go. Fee-Ree is very quiet. There's no new crystal clear memory, just feelings of something there; something intangible but present and revealed, but she can't make sense of what is there.

We get to the nymph's clearing. It's twilight, just like last time; a twilight realm, after all. Seraphina is not there. Gnog walks around the pool edges to the waterfall, and sees if he can push his head through to see behind - but there's no cavern. He tries calling out, "Seraphina? It's Gnog and party. Are you there?". There's a strange suspension in the sound of the waterfall, a silence, though it still moves. Then a voice, the sound of crystal chimes or small ringing bells, sings out; "I remember you. Yes, I remember you. Very well. Please step back" and Gnog steps back away from the waterfall.

A silhouette appears behind the waterfall, getting larger as if closer; then Seraphina steps through, wiping water drops off herself, standing in the pool. It's brighter around her, as if she sheds a little light herself. "You're back. You've brought back one of the children of the forest!" - she leans down and touches Cedric on the nose. "You've been away for a long time. Have you been well? Have you been a good boy?" and Cedric says, "Yes, I've been the best! I've been very very good indeed and seen lots of things!" She asks why we're here and we explain - trying to find a lost memory, which we think we've uncovered but Fee-Ree can't find a way to "reach" it.

Fee-Ree is invited into the pool. Seraphina looks to Cedric and waves her hand; "I think it might be best if..." - and Cedric falls asleep. She asks what kind of memory this is likely to be. Sad, angry, violent, dangerous? It could be any or all of those! Just for her to see, or is anyone welcome to see it? Fee-Ree says it's for everyone. "Last question. Is there anything in this memory, when I pull it out, that is going to harm me?" "No, I don't believe so - there's nothing 'living' in my memory; it's just a memory."

Seraphina puts her hands on Fee-Ree's head and asks her to think of the memory, or at least the memories around them. Fee-Ree does so. "Focus on it, and think about it as clearly as you can; do not think about other things; think about only this memory. Put yourself in that position. Are you there?" "Yes. Yes I am." "Alright..." - and Seraphina runs the tip of her fingers, grazing the surface of the water, sweeping in a circle. The circles spread out in bands of light, until they spread out to fill the - now we realise - very surprisingly circular pool. Paylyc tells us that she's created a magical circle; playing it safe; they're usually used to keep things in or out.

When asked, Fee-Ree says she's ready. Seraphina pulls out a silvery thread from the side of Fee-Ree's head (very Harry Potter and the same as Riglan saw when the Zhentarim attacked Maireagh). She lays it into the pool and the thread starts to shimmer. Seraphina floats up and out of the water, ending up hovering on tip-toes on the grass at the side of the pool. The strand shifts and wavers, moving around like snakes swimming through the water, making ripples that eventually form a scene of sorts, initially very confusing and trippy, but eventually turning into thin layers of a picture that together are sort of 3D, almost like a crude hologram. We see the house - not in a crater, surrounded by gardens. Similar to Fee-Ree's, but slightly different. There's another moment of dead silence, like when the waterfall fell briefly silent. The scene we see shifts to an inside perspective. Fee-Ree and Arxcis are having a heated argument. It doesn't look angry but we can see they're disagreeing strongly about something. Arxcis puts out his hands as if to try and calm Fee-Ree, but she's shaking his head and pushing his hands away. She turns around and crosses her arms, then puts her head in her hands, saying something we can't hear; Arxcis looks stressed and worried, not knowing what to do. He comes forward and puts his hands on her shoulders. She turns and he hugs her, and says something; she looks up, says something back, pushes him away and the argument results. He's waving his arms in exasperation. She points at things around in the room, her eyes starting to glow - the look she sometimes gets - we can see fear in Arxcis' eyes, trying to calm her but she keeps pushing him away. Her eyes get brighter. She puts her hands down, leans forward close to him, arguing more - but then there's a strange crack, in the space between them. A tear. An extremely bright red light shines through in streaks, in various directions. Arxcis' eyes widen in fear and panic. Fee-Ree's eyes glaze over in a sheen of ruby light, her arms falling to her side, almost motionless; she floats up in the air briefly, then the rift rips through the house and explodes outwards, creating a crater as Arxcis is pulled almost like ribbons into a smaller and smaller space until pulled into the rift, which closes. Little shards of red crystal are embedded into bits of the house and the sides of the crater. Fee-Ree collapses onto the ground and the memory ends.

Gnog runs forward towards Fee-Ree - he can see that this memory has been relived, awakened fully. He grabs her and hugs her. "I was conscious the whole time! I did that! I did that, that was me... I didn't pass out... It wasn't that I lost control of my magic - I mean - what WAS that?"

Gnog says first, "I'm so sorry. I didn't realise it could be like that, the memory. More painful than I expected it could ever be... But..." and he reaches into his backpack and pulls out the red crystal amulet, pointing at it. "Doesn't this look the same to you? Is there common magic here?"

Ketmera comes forward. "There's only one way of finding out. There must be more of the crystal left in the crater - we just have to find it."

Seraphina interrupts - "We need to do something about *this*" - the memory is still sort of 'alive', not running anymore, but the vibrations and shimmers are getting worse and agitating in the pool. "Fee-Ree - do you want this back?" "Yes, I think it would be best that way." Seraphina puts her finger on the water and it's like lifting the skin off boiled milk as it cools, but a shimmering silver layer, which she wraps around until it forms more of a veil which drops over Fee-Ree and 'soaks in'. "I've never seen anything like that before. The energy, life and magic in that memory is *very* powerful. There is more to it than what we saw. I hope in time that you can remember what was said. That's taken a lot out of me..." - and Gnog notices her light has faded a bit. Gnog says, "We owe you a debt, and if there's any way I can ever repay that, call on me." "One thing you can do is to keep my grove a secret and, if I'm ever under attack, I will call for you." Gnog nods and vows, "we will never reveal this place to anyone and I will defend you if called."

Seraphina walks past us, brushing her hand on our shoulders. "Well, thank you. It is a pleasure to see you again" and she walks over the water towards the waterfall. She turns one last time to look at us, then disappears into the water. Suddenly it's just a small waterfall in a little pool in twilight again.

Paylyc says, "Well, right, that was... Different? I'll get you back to the house but then I must take leave of you." As we start to walk, Gnog says, "Thank you, *again*, for helping us. I owe you too, just as much as Seraphina." "Well there is something you *can* do for me... Can I have my whistle back?" Aww. Gnog hands it over. "You know where to find us if you need to find us anyway, and you certainly don't need me to come to your rescue anymore." "Fair enough. Someone else should find it useful." Deni adds, "We couldn't have done what we did today without your help. At all." Paylyc replies, "I'm glad I could help but there are things afoot that I've taken my attention off for longer than I should today. I need to get back to them." Gnog thanks him again, and says that - assuming we're able to find our way back to this plane some day - he'll head back this way and check on Stellarin and the tower (apparently he's kept himself to the tower more than he used to and isn't influencing the surrounding area negatively), and perhaps just make a social call rather than only being here when he wants things!

Paylyc heads off into the forest. We stand in the clearing and Ketmera asks "what now?" - "Find crystal shards, maybe" says Gnog. Gnog gets 16+1 on Investigation but Deni's the one with a really good eye - 16+12 => 28! - and she even has a special ability to detect things changed or hidden by magic that might be trying to hide from her.

Rather than going to the crater walls, Deni walks to the house, drives a dagger into the woodwork and pries out some red glass. She pushes some rocks around with foot and pulls out another one. Gnog says, "Yeah, OK, it's not exactly uncommon then..." and Fee-Ree exclaims that she thought it was just glassware in the house that was broken but "...this isn't glass at all". It's basically a thin shard of crystal and we compare it visually to the amulet. Similar shade; there's variation between the two shards anyway and the amulet is in the same range. Ketmera suggests we carry this on in her grove; she's getting tired and we don't really need to be here. She tells Gnog to hold Cedric so he picks up the still-snoozing Cedric. Gnog looks to Fee-Ree and says, "I don't know if or when we'll be back to this house - but this used to be the place where you lost Arxcis. Perhaps today it's the place where you find him as well."

Fee-Ree picks up another shard she's found. "Well, we're one step closer to this coming true. Thanks for taking the trip here with me - this is not at *all* what I imagined!"

Ketmera is about 100ft away beckoning us so we head over to her. Fee-Ree turns occasionally to look around at the house and crater, "in her head", understandably. Ketmera waits at the edge of the crater. "I need you all to move quickly and hold each other's hands. Gnog, you'll need to be last because you're holding Cedric" - we all link hands. "Just trust me and follow me." - she lifts her staff, weaves a pattern with it in front of a nearby tree - which is very large, we realise - then steps into the tree, pulling us in with her. We step "through" and on the other side it's evening, on the edge of her grove. Tree portal! Neat. Should've woken Cedric up for that. As we come through, he stirs and looks up. "Oh. We're not at the waterfall anymore." Gnog says, "Yes, you were asleep because of some very scary and perhaps dangerous things we had to look at and we weren't sure if it was safe" and points back at the tree portal which is closing but visible, "We came through there. Tree portal!" and Cedric just goes "Oh, wow. This is where we were before. It's a lot later now though."

We follow Ketmera up to the circle. She sets up something it the circle, but tells us we can sleep anywhere we like outside of the circle. There are flowers, leaves, baskets of those, perfumed oils and more. She takes out some old bones with writing on them and refers to them, as if they are instructions. "Right. I'm off to bed. Wake me up when..." - she gets Gnog to stand in a particular place and points between two stones - "...you see the hunter in the sky through these, wake me up". She circles around the hill and we notice for the first time a low stone doorway on one side, presumably to a house or burrow inside, which she heads into.

Gnog stands where he's been told looking at the two stones. "Fee-Ree... Deni... What's the hunter in the sky?!" Deni points out it'll be a star formation and hopefully we'll just recognise it. Gnog does not need to stand there until it's actually dark!

Gnog and Deni go foraging. "Fee-Ree, are you OK by yourself, or do you want to come with us?" "I'm OK. And Cedric's here with me." "Well maybe you could get a fire started and boil some water?" and Fee-Ree gets that going more or less immediately thanks to magic. The two of us head into the woods. Gnog survival 17+7. Gnog finds a rabbit which will do well for the three of us, and of course we already know about all the fruit but he also finds some mushrooms and leaves that should do well in a stew. Deni and Gnog take some time to quickly skin and prepare the rabbit so that it's not a gory experience for Cedric who might not be quite ready for that yet!

We get back to the grove. Water is on the boil; Fee-Ree has even brewed a small pot of tea already. Cedric wanders over, wanting to know what we got. We show him. "Oh. You found a skinless rabbit?!" Gnog explains that he skinned it separately. Cedric asks if we kept the skin; Gnog did; Cedric suggests turning it into something. It's not something we've done before, but Cedric says he'd like to have some kind of warm clothing, perhaps just to fit in or be decorative. Something that looks a bit like what Gnog's got. So Gnog carefully hangs the skin near the fire so it can dry.

Deni leans in. "Gnog! He doesn't have any shoulders!" and Gnog says "We'll figure something out!" - Fee-Ree happily gets on with making the stew. We keep a portion to one side for Ketmera, which we can heat for her later.

The area we're in is warm. The trees are different and the distant mountains are in "the wrong place". We all have terrible History rolls! So we don't really figure out where we area in a historical context. The stones are *very* old and the forest is ancient. It "feels" amazing to be in. We should ask Ketmera for more. The trees are clearly older than at the Sacred Grove. Gnog thinks of Eliastra.

We sit enjoying the stew, well away from civilisation, as the sunset deepens. We talk of light things, keeping Fee-Ree's mind off the trauma earlier. We sense that for all the trepidation, she has strength; strength that's arisen from knowing that she doesn't have to face the unknown things ahead alone. The strength of our party together gives her courage.

After a last blaze of orange on the horizon, the stars start to emerge. Gnog climbs carefully back into the stone circle. In every direction, the stones seem to frame different views. The centre of the circle is a massive circular stone slab with margins encroached a little by some grass and dirt, but otherwise, just a huge smooth slab with etchings and carvings. (History 13) Gnog recognises at least some of the forms of writing as it has similarities to the runic language of the giants. Perhaps this explains how this structure was built - if giants built it, it's less "impossible" than for smaller creatures!

Gnog keeps an eye out for the "rising hunter". Wisdom: 19+2 / Perception 19+7 (same roll). Gnog spots it quickly and understands quite quickly, then, that it is the hunter. It's in the right place, so Gnog heads over to the little opening that he saw Ketmera go into and clears his throat awkwardly and gently tries to wake Ketmera by calling her name. A voice says, "did you see the hunter?" Gnog says "I'm afraid so - I'm sorry you've not had much sleep..." "That's OK!" - she emerges. She notes that it's a very clear night, "very good for it indeed" - whatever 'it' might be - we offer her some of the stew. Rabbit is OK and she seems to enjoy it.

There's some smalltalk and we ask about the circle. "You're right about giants; the circle is very old and dates to the era of the giant kingdoms, when they ruled the land. Even then there were druids amongst the Stone Giants, or at least their ancestors; they built this stone circle, which is why it's so big!" (each pillar is maybe 15 feet high at least and they're very broad). "I don't know how many generations of druids looked after the circle before me, but when I came along I was apprenticed to an old human druid who was here, but he couldn't have been looking after it long, humans are short-lived! He passed away maybe 15 years ago, now, so it's just me. At it's height I believe the circle of druids that looked after this place must have numbered a dozen." Does she think more druids would be nice here? "It depends. I mean, there aren't that many druids left. Not many people understand the need for these things. Look at this place - what do we have to offer young, bright magic users? They're drawn to the academies. Nobody wants to slum it out here in the middle of the woods in this old circle that is probably fading into history."

"That's sad, I certainly wouldn't mind. Perhaps it's not about capturing the minds of young magic users - perhaps older ones are fine too?" Ketmera thinks that younger people are needed so that the lessons and teachings can be properly passed on.

Our attention turns to the identification spell. We have to put the fire out. We hand Ketmera the crystal shards including amulet for comparison purposes. A ritual takes place that we're told will take about 10 minutes. We're called in closer towards the end as the spell is finishing. "OK, so - where do these come from?" she says out loud. "From which plane do these originate?" - and she "lights up" with stars, becoming translucent. We've seen her take this form before. The constellations within her shift and end up looking a bit like a dragon, and she takes something of a dragon-like form by the time she finishes asking the question. The dragon form looks wise. She looks up into the sky and takes out a beautiful stone with what looks like star formations marked on it - a star map, druidic focus; she places it on the ground. She pulls out the bone scroll again and reads from it. Around us, the stone pillars seem to be reflecting the stars. She matches the reflections with constellations in the sky, then starts drawing shapes and runs with her staff on blank spaces of the large circular central slab; her staff seems to have some kind of charring on the end, leaving marks in carbon. After about a minute her eyes dim and the starlight on her starts to fade as her form begins to return to normal. She collects her star map and bone scroll, then walks around, looking at the marks made on the central slab.

**"Interesting. I don't know that this is necessarily the answer that you're looking for, but these crystals apparently come from the astral sea. Whatever portal you opened, opened to the astral sea itself. That is, everything that connects worlds on the astral plane... So I know this probably isn't the answer you're looking for. But at least we know where he went - somewhere on the astral plane. At least we have a plane!"**

She takes the crystals. "I can't find out any more than this, but at least you have somewhere to start and you might be able to find out more about the astral sea; someone might know where crystals like this can be found there." She hands us back the crystals. "I'm sorry I couldn't be of more help. If you want to try your luck and if you have no other way, I could probably shift us to the astral plane if you had a particular location in mind and if you want to take the risk. In theory, I could use one of these crystals as a focus to get us roughly where these could be found, but it's still a big risk; it might not work. We might end up somewhere that we can't survive. But in theory I can shift us to another plane if I've something to anchor to. I've never done it before but the knowledge is here" - looking around - "it's written on these stones."

"Why sorry?! Ketmera you've been amazing. Thank you!" says Gnog. "We want to see what else we can find rather than leap into the unknown". Ketmera offers to watch over us if we sleep here tonight, so we do.

Fee-Ree takes the shards, wraps them in cloth and tucks them into her robes. She hands the amulet back to Gnog. We lay out bed rolls and fall asleep under the stars.



## DAY 5 (Riglan 41)

We're at Ketmera's grove. Fee-Ree finds a rock from the grove which Ketmera is happy to be taken as a teleport focus, so we can return here easily.

We figure we should talk to Morgan. Fee-Ree says we can go direct to Sehanine's Bow so at the risk of scaring people by a sudden arrival, and at some risk of it being a moving target - Fee-Ree is a bit uncertain! - we go for it. Gnog gets Cedric all excited about going on a ship.

Crossed fingers all round. We might arrive on the boat; drop into the sea, behind where the boat was as the spell started to be cast; or somewhere else entirely, such as the dock where the boat most recently stopped. We don't know. We could just wait in Waterdeep, but we're testing the limits and finding out how far magic can take us; the risk, we hope, is worth it - even if we have to swim. We're very familiar with that boat, having spend weeks on it overall now, which Fee-Ree thinks improves our chances.

We all hold hands, but Cedric is sitting on Gnog's shoulders and gripping his furs very hard just in case. The spell starts and seems stable - no wild magic surges - and then with a now-familiar "pop", we appear *above* the main deck, around 25ft!

Gnog: Dex save 19, Fee-Ree 14, Deni 23. Deni lands with cat-like stealth, feet up. Fee-Ree loses her grip on our hands, shocked by being in the air and distracted by the spell and lands with a thump on her rear! (6 damage). Gnog lands hard but with Cedric on his back still and is fine - Cedric going, "Again! Again!" as deck hands scatter. We realise why we were airborne - it's a very choppy day, the ship bounding wildly. Gnog con save 15, just about holds his lunch. Gnog says, "Sorry, sorry, portal! We can see you're busy, we'll keep out of the way!"

Ophitana is on deck, shouting orders. It seems a storm is approaching. We hear that cargo is to be secured below and run down, shouting hello to Opithana ("You picked a fine time to arrive!" she shouts). We help secure barrels (strength 10+10) & find it hard to keep on our feet. Gnog dex 11, falls over a few times. No sea legs. Cedric is put into a hammock and swings in it excited going "whee!" - no sense of fear yet! Deni and Fee-Ree help the cook and bosun secure objects too. This goes on for 20 minutes or so, then suddenly, the ship stabilises, calming and settling. We venture up to the top deck. Standing at the prow, arms outstretched, lightning energy crackling off their fingertips is Morgan, wearing night robes! They weren't on shift but nobody was sleeping through that mid-summer storm... Morgan has managed to create a bubble of air around the front of the ship that settles the sea ahead for almost 100 feet radius, stabilising things significantly. It's very strange to look at, waves crashing into the side but dissipating unnaturally. "I can't hold it for too long! Strap everything down!" shouts Morgan. But Ophithana can't see what way is best for wind to be directed once the bubble falls,

Gnog scuttles up to the crow's nest (athl. 28), perception only 16, but he has his eagle eyes. There's a slight sliver of blue off to the left which seems to be above what looks like a small bit of land. Gnog turns to Ophithana and shouts, "Blue sky and land to the left!" to which "Hard to port!" is shouted back; the ship swings rapidly around, leaning heavily. Morgan tells everyone to get ready - grab hold of something! - then the bubble is released. Morgan channels the wind instead, channelling it to push us forwards, hovering in the air a few feet herself as she switches the spells. "Full sail!" shouts Ophithana; the ship lurches forward, skipping heavily over the waves and swells. Gnog (dex save 9) is thrown around in the crow's nest, taking 7 damage as he's rattled around.

Finally, the blue sky is only a few miles ahead now, the worst of the storm behind, but Morgan's magic is faltering now. Ophithana gets the sails set to tack along as the wind direction shifts under the fading spell. It's a good 45 minutes until we're out of the worst of it. Things stay bouncy, but by mid-morning we're close to the land - and island, almost sub-tropical in appearance, with the water more settled.

Gnog descends as Ophithana calls. "Good to see you. Great timing as always... Very risky!" - we acknowledge that we might not have entirely accurately assessed the risk. Gnog starts to explain and Ophithana suggests that we go to her quarters rather than have a long conversation on deck. Gnog explains their quest and how we hope to speak to Morgan but didn't know where at sea she was or how long she'd be. Ophithana asks for Morgan to come in and we apologise for keeping her up though at least we weren't responsible for waking her!

Morgan's face is a little different. Gnog enquires, saying he hope it's not impolite. Apparently, Morgan just pictured herself differently at some point - not radically, just a little. We explain the situation. Morgan says that she does still have the note (prior campaign) that talks about being able to change plane, but you can only travel on a ship specifically built to travel that way. Apparently, it's all quite complex.

Morgan fetches the note. It has a coordinate of a place - a location - and the note suggests that if Morgan were to seek a way back to traverse the planes, that the location would hold some answers. Perhaps we should sail there, she suggests; it's in the middle of the ocean. It would be quite a voyage - to Baldur's Gate for restock, then out. A week maybe. We ask Ophithana what the ship's commitments are; is this possible? We'd pay for the hire, of course! Ophithana says she needs to speak to the officers to find out what might be done.

Morgan doesn't know a huge amount about the planes - the traveller need not know the mechanics that drive the world. Different ways to travel; their ship had been chasing a Nautiloid, we recall. It had moved between planes by ripping holes in the weave (we've got the island by now; Ophithana drops anchor and sends people ashore to look for fresh food). Meanwhile there's the lunch shift and we have the conversation over food. The long and short of it, though, is that without having a plane-travelling ship, Morgan can't help. Morgan has never seen one the whole of their time in Feyrn; only the lion-like paladin who wrote Morgan's note has ever known anything of them. She two ships that Morgan was with on the chase were both destroyed.

Deni chips in - she reminds us that there was a ship found frozen in a glacier. We don't need to get to Sigil if we have such a ship, since we we're already able to travel between planes and don't need Sigil at the heart of it. We realise that there is a more technical distinction between astral sea and plane than we'd realised, but whatever we might have called it before, it just means Arxcis isn't on any of the material planes. Gnog is trying to rationalise how things might fit together, but Morgan insists that the tales we have how things connect are just tales, probably; Morgan hasn't gone to Sigil, Zilmorn is listening and agrees. We need something more concrete / learned, e.g. by going to Candlekeep.

We're not sure if the coordinates we have will be useful, then. We don't know what's there and if we'd need an astral ship or whatever. We're here, now, on this boat and if Ophithana says we can go - we should look.

Later, Gnog notices that Morgan seems introspective and troubled. He asks why. Morgan doesn't want to be drawn on it and walks away. Insight: 1+2 (!) Gnog isn't sure what's up, but tries to make a mental note to ask again later.

Ophithana and Zilmorn later that afternoon think they know where we are after the storm had us lose our bearings. We set sail *North* for Baldur's Gate - it will take a full 6 days to get there, even though it's the closest port; they were a long way South.



## DAY 6 (Riglan 42)

Morgan calls people into a meeting. Now we've figured out all the maps and so-on, Morgan has realised that we could just cut directly to the coordinates in 2-3 days, rather than all the way to Baldur's Gate and out again. There might not have been enough food but for the island stop-off and some fishing. Morgan brings it up as there's a possibility they might leave if we get there. They have no idea what's there. Morgan wants to be honest with Ophithana.

After much discussion - Gnog not wanting to put the crew at risk - agrees that he can scout ahead via Beast Sense through this figurine raven periodically, at least for a 30 mins out, 30 mins back flight time for each 1 hour time period of the ritual-cast spell.

Gnog does get more of a heart-to-heart with Morgan. It's a difficult conversation; Morgan is very worried about just how unknown it might be out there. A very wide range of possibilities and no information. The risk is unquantified. Morgan does mention that she was the pilot of one of the ships; 30 people, two pilots of which they were one. Gnog gets a bit of insight into just how deep and broad Morgan's life was in the other plane, not talked about here; too many questions, too difficult to remember and too hard to blend in if you're trying to hang on to a former life.

Fee-Ree is hanging out with Thandi and wife, Deni mainly with Ophithana and Zilmorn once again studying the ways of ships. Gnog spends time trying to befriend seagulls and practice Beast Sense since it's been a while since he did that and it's really a way of distracting himself.



## DAY 7 (Riglan 43)

Gnog notices that Cedric looks a little sickly. He's not sure what's wrong. After a while, we narrow it down - no soil. Water and sun isn't enough; Cedric's not been on real ground for a long time now. We consider how we might solve it. Thandi has an idea and makes a sort of bath/bucket of a nutrient solution, "liquid soil", it's not a substitute for the real thing but might give Cedric enough to get by and feel alright. Meanwhile, Gnog goes in search of hay or straw, along with vegetable peelings and such like, to try and mulch that up as something that might be a bit nicer to sit in. Thandi also gets vegetables with sap in, squeezes it out and puts it into the nutrient bath - "might be a bit like bathing in blood for a plant! But it must have quite a lot of nutrients" - we agree to perhaps not let Cedric know what's in it.

Fortunately after an hour in the bath Cedric's leaves are looking a better green and the bucket of makeshift mulch is at least software than decking and doesn't sway like a hammock. But it's a timely reminder that we're not all suited for life at sea and we should find out how to look after a sentient plant if we're going to bring him on travels.

Zilmorn points out that Cedric is a kind of rhododendron, but young and hard to recognise as such; still bush-like but will become a tree and probably a long-lived one at that. We shouldn't be too surprised if he starts flowing each year at some point!



## DAY 8 (Riglan 44)

The chart says we should only be a few hours out. Gnog uses his raven totem and starts running rituals. Cedric stands at the prow, trying to help too; he'll alert Fee-Ree if he sees anything.. Over the course of this - adv. perception, total 25; he sees a column of clouds up ahead that look unnatural. The pattern of water flowing around indicates some disturbance around there. He warns people so they know what he's seeing and gets the bird to fly closer. It's around 15 miles out. It can go maybe 4 miles more (he'll lose contact as it returns, which is fine). The clouds are hugging a strange structure! It rises out of the sea. The water interacts at the base as if this is an island, but it's got a strange metal structure.

Just before Gnog is losing contact and turns the raven to come back, he gets a sense of scale; he can barely believe he's right; a break in cloud at the base reveals an island maybe 100ft in radius, out of which sprouts the strange metal tower which gets *wider* as it rises, like funnel - some 2,000 ft tall. It is by a very large margin the single largest apparent construction that Gnog's ever seen and eclipses even the tallest rock pillar he's ever seen to free-stand.

As his spell fades, Gnog turns to the others, clears his throat nervously, and tries to explain - "uuuh..." - takes a while to convey, but at least he can say truthfully that there was no indication of anything been pulled in; the water was behaving normally; the bird sensed nothing unusual in the air currents. Zilmore asks if Gnog thought it was natural, man-made, etc.? Man made, Gnog would have to guess given its size and metallic appearance? Zilmorn runs off and comes back with a book. "Legend has it that in the Southern Sea, North of the cataclysm that engulfed and submerged Chult during the spell plague - a big area, but roughly covers where we are - people stumbled across an island called Nimbral, further out from the island Lantan and much smaller. Many assumed it was just Lantan itself, since that had been swamped by the Spell Plague too; people had found Nimbral, perhaps, *assuming* Lantan while in fact at that time Lantan was still submerged." The one account Zilmore has in his book is different from most. It describes a *natural* formation 2000 feet high rising like a rock pillar out of the ocean. "If it *is* Nimbral, it's inhabited." "By whom?" "Nobody quite knows, but ships have claimed to have sailed to Nimbral - never openly - but sailors tell of stories of ships that have sailed to Nimbral carrying exotic cargo, or returning with precious secret cargo; they're always sworn to secrecy. There must be a harbour or a port."

Gnog can have another look as we sail forward and the bird meets us again, which given our decent speed takes only around 20 minutes once we've all finished talking. By that point we can all see the strange cloud easily with our own eyes. There is much murmuring and questions from all around. The bird and Gnog realise that we're too far away to keep in touch when it reaches the shore so we wait. Later, the bird flies in, getting within a mile and apparently passing a magical threshold of sorts - the illusion of all the clouds around disappears. There is a shimmer and then, clear to see, is the island, much as Zilmorn described. It's actually a massive rock island rising up, but a mixture of materials - some is metal, some stone, masonry, carvings; some strange, bizarre natural structure that's been turned into a dwelling on a grand scale - a vertical city. There's an obvious port entrance leading to an interior harbour. The bird even sees windows, but they're irregular; pockets of habitation, perhaps following an original hollow cave structure that was already present inside. There are balconies of sorts but they are very large - Gnog would think one might land a ship on them...

The bird gets all the way to the top. It's flat. There's a huge hole in the middle, like a chimney, but metal-lined and perfectly circular, maybe 300ft diameter with around a 50ft wide rim around it (so the tower flares up from 200ft to 400ft diameter roughly top to bottom). All of this is approximate, as it's hard to gauge something this large and unusual.

The bird descends and flies into the 'entrance' cave. There's a full port inside, with one other ship already docked. Humanoids are moving around - one is human. Two look larger, with greyish skin but it looks thicker and tougher than Gnogs. They wear overalls and floppy hats. Small round ears are closer to the top of their heads, with rectangular, elongated faces, big teeth, wide nostrils at the end. **Gnog doesn't know it, but these are the hippo-like Giff.** There are also small, mechanical contraptions that look like strange steel mushrooms with arms. Gnog sees the top of one pop up, revealing a head with some kind of eyes. They seem to have little feet. Another one is different - arms like dock cranes on a strange fixed cylinder body. They push boxes on a wheeled trolley away from the ship.

Gnog thanks the bird and asks it to come back in. He does his best to explain what he's seen to increasingly incredulous looks. Morgan recognises the description and calls the grey race **Giff**. She calls the metal creatures "**Autognomes**". Morgan takes a deep breath - she thinks she knows why we've been directed here and tells us its safe to sail in. "I just have to tap into skills, words and knowledge that I haven't used in a long time to use as credentials".

We sail through the barrier of clouds. The crew gasps as we finally see the huge rock tower with our own eyes, unobscured by clouds. Leaving from the island, flying towards us, are two entities; Morgan tells us that they're no threat. She stands tall and asks Fee-Ree and Thandi to stand up with her too, so they do so. Deni realises - "Spellcasters", she says to Gnog. Morgan adjusts her clothing to look smarter, more formal. The flying creatures sway from side to side as they get closer; eventually we can see them clearly, slightly smaller than humans, arms and legs spread out with flaps of skin between arms and legs, gliding - monkeys! Fully dressed... ...OK. The weaving from side to side is due to them getting lower where they're trying to get into the right position to drop down onto the ship. They land, tumble and roll, then stand up, dust themselves off, look around and ask for the captain.

Ophithana stands forward. "I am the captain..." Morgan steps forward too - "...I would, in effect, be the Spelljammer". The two monkeys, at this, look relieved but also stand up straight, do a quick salute which Morgan returns; "Ah! Right. We haven't met. Spelljammer, you say?" and one picks up a small thing that Gnog thinks looks like a very small sending stone attached to a circlet on the monkey's head. "Not a threat! Stand down! We're sailing in!"

As we get closer to the dock, we see bits of metal and rock moving and sinking back into the rock. Gnog's good eyes spot what look distinctly like canons and realises that there was a substantial artillery pointed at us which we hadn't even seen!

"Welcome to Nimbral", says the second monkey. "I take it most of you have never been here before given the way you're looking at me?! Bit, sir - madam - sir?" (to Morgan!) - "welcome home!" - and so it goes on. Morgan explains she's not from the island. "Ah. Well, **Nimbral is this plane's Spelljammer academy.**" Looking to the distance, we see another larger island some miles away behind the rock on which this tower sits; we learn that this is part of the collection of islands that is Nimbral, of which the academy is just part. All is protected by magical illusion.

We enter the cave through the large opening - at least 30-40 foot wide and tall. The Sehanine's Bow fits comfortably, though it's not so large that much bigger ships would fit.

Continual flame keeps the dock well lit; it's a huge space, the flame lights dotted over the ceiling like orderly stars. It looks like there's space for three ships to dock, arranged like splayed toes on a bird. One is already taken, as Gnog saw by bird. We're directed to the lefthand dock. The Bow is on the larger end of what can fit here, which is unusual compared to Waterdeep docks where much larger galleons are common. The spaces are carved in, rather than being some huge dome with this entire tower above it balanced as if on an eggshell. It's more robust than that.

The gangway is pushed out to a high path, which is one of several at elevated positions along the walls. Morgan and the Hadozee (the monkeys) have a conversation with Ophithana. While they do that we pick up our things from down below and collect Cedric, who is keen to explore. We disembark, with the crew. We're greeted by a 7ft tall stocky giff, wearing a coat with ribbon buttons and gold tassels on the shoulder. He wants to speak to the captain. Paperwork is figured out. An autognome is beckoned over; it opens a hatch and inside is a box, full of things that look like medals almost - pins - we're told that we need to wear a pin to be given entry. They are strange though - they don't spike in place, but are in fact sticky and just stay in place. They look like four-pointed green stars with the top spike larger.

Most of us are led away along ramps around the cave; Ophithana and some crew stay behind as there's apparently a sale of cargo. We go past a room dropping down from the ceiling, glass-fronted, overlooking the docks. The Hadozee head in there while the Giff leads us onwards. He introduces himself as we go - **he is Officer Ragnulf**. He can offer us quarters if we're staying, and we aren't sure but we agree just in case. We're taken through a circular metal door into a glass bubble of sorts that turns out to be some kind of lift, that travels outside the tower along a groove before popping back inside into an alcove and we exit. It's a busy administration floor. A human - Fleur and half-orc - Cassianus - are sat at a desk and not a greeting. The Giff says he'll leave us with them and departs; we thank him. 

Apparently there is room for the whole crew, in bunk rooms. Fleur finds 6 keys when we count our crew (about 21-22 I think?). We're taken through to a concourse with ramps leading up and down to various different areas. There are all sorts of strange races - an entourage of colourful insect people talking in clicks, but dressed in robes or uniform, four arms, expressive faces; a group with yellow and green weathered-looking skin, wispy hair, very short noses; a collection of almost translucent, but coloured creatures that hold a shape but seem to be made of gel or water, as if a water elemental adopting humanoid shape. We are led past this up to a level with a series of doors leading to rooms that face out, with views beyond the rock tower. With 6 rooms, they are in groups of four, so our party can grab one. The crew here agree to meet down at the concourse in a few minutes to regroup.

In our room, there are comfy looking beds. It's akin to a work of antique furniture where you're sudden presented with minimalist, modern Scandanavian design. There's a large oval window, but it looks almost like it's an illusion. Deni touches it and realises she can change the surface's opacity to block out light, so it looks like stone, or make it like a window. "What *have* we just walked into?" asks Fee-Ree.

Gnog gives a speech about the unknown and this place being apparently just what we were looking for - perhaps this is where our journey truly starts. Fee-Ree takes some time to absorb all that; Deni though is super excited, and wants to learn more. Gnog has to talk to Cedric and say that we'll show him all we can, but if we travel further from here, we don't know what it'll be like. Gnog reminds Cedric how he felt in the boat when sick and this could get worse.

There is a card with rules. "No open carry except authorised staff", Deni reads. Gnog doesn't understand, so Deni explains - it's like Waterdeep. She's already shed her kit. In that case, we know what do and basically dress as if there. "Please respect the instructions of the crew and obey all directions / Please adhere to areas marked with the colour of your access badges" - we guess that means green, appropriate for Cedric!

Cedric is sharp and does notice that he's walking around as himself and nobody seems surprised. We explain that, as he's seen, everyone here is different so different is just normal. It's a good thing. He is excited by it, once he's had time to think.

It's time to head out. We're about to leave, but Deni is standing in front of the door. There's no handle! "How do we open it?!" - Gnog perception 23. There's a tiny blinking red light above the door. "How do they do that?" he asks and waves his hand at it. The door opens. "It's like a flickering flame, but regularly timed..." - we exit and hear muffled sounds the other doors - Gnog walks door to door shouting in so people can figure out. We agree that this place has many marvels, but its solution to opening doors seems to lack the simplicity and elegance of a door handle. Looking at the keys, Gnog shows Deni; it's just a metal rectangle with a recess that you place it upon. Gnog says, "So how would you pick the lock?" "I guess you probably... Wouldn't? Figure out how to make one of these metal things?" - we test our key on another door; they are room specific. Strange magics. Fee-Ree describes it as an Arcane Lock.

We return to the concourse. It's like a fancy inn (a modern day hotel, more); Ophithana, Hin-Da-Meh and Zilmorn and the others are already there. We realise Morgan is absent - each of our two groups think Morgan was with them. Of all the people to lose! We figure out we have no ways to contact them so Gnog pulls out a paper bird, "We are at the concourse. Where are you?" - he folds it and it flutters away, circling the concourse but then flies into a side concourse. It's going slowly and Deni gives chase immediately. A few of us chase behind, a few stay in the concourse. It's a complicated route of ramps and corridors until the paper bird eventually flaps against a doorway for a bit before flattening into a sheet and manages to wriggle through a gap - the doors are not so ill-fitted here as often they are! - at which point the door opens as we approach, but to yet another corridor. The paper bird re-folds and flies on. Gnog starts run forward but then notices that the hallway has a red star (perception 17) - he calls after Deni - "red star! We're not allowed in here!" and we have to retreat. Gnog draws an analogy between us being at a palace - we're used to being granted access anywhere these days, but here, we're nobody.

We wait and after a while the door opens and along the corridor walk four people - a human, a half-elf and a halfling, along with a humanoid with unusual blue sparkling skin and hair that seems to float somehow. They wear uniforms bearing small red stars. As they go past, the nod politely. We ask about Morgan and in the conversation they explain that this is a cadet area; our green badges are just for visitors. They'd seen the paper bird, heading towards the sailors area, which is another colour again, anyway. We all head back towards the concourse before they head to the mess hall; on the way, Gnog enquires about the species of the fourth of their group. "I'm a kind of elf, I guess? I'm not from here - I transferred from the Rock Of Bral, but my family are from another world. I don't really think there is an equivalent here on Toril - if you haven't been off-world I don't think there's anything we can equate our people to? A kind of elf." The half-elf says, "Kind of like an air genasi but kind of like an octopus!" "Hmm. Maybe. Anyway, we're related to the Reigar, but we're also at the same time not like most Reigar that you might meet. Let's just say that we're a peace-loving, non-hostile branch of the Reigar." She's a little embarrassed at that and waves of striped colour travel across her skin. Gnog says, "Well, I can't speak for other Reigar, but I'm glad to have a met a friendly and really quite beautiful one. Oh! Umm... I'm not hitting on you..." - it's his turn to be embarrassed. (He realises that her hair is made from thicker strands that are motive; that's why it seemed to float; he understands the octopus reference from this and the skin colour changes). They explain that they're cadets in the training programme. "Jen here - " the halfling motions to the Reigar "- is preparing for her Jammer exams". Gnog wishes them good luck.

We head back to the concourse swiftly. The others are still waiting and we explain what we've discovered. About 15 minutes later, Morgan and a Hadozee appear, walking along the concourse towards us. The Hadozee has a gold star and Morgan has a blue star. "Sorry, I didn't know of a way to leave a message for you!" says Morgan, handing back the paper bird - not reusable, but nice gesture anyway! Morgan introduces us to the Hadozee - "This is bosun **Tarto,** one of the, well, quartermasters here. He's been filling me on how this academy operates. Is anyone hungry? Shall we head to the cafe to eat and have a chat?" 

We head there, grabbing a seat on long tables; it's a "get up and help yourself to food from long shelves" buffet kind of thing. We stock up! We ask Morgan about money and she says we just take food, no payment needed. There is smalltalk; Morgan had not know about the academy here and had no idea how to get back. This particular world seemed "at an earlier level of development" - they pick words carefully - and Gnog says, "Well, the magic - if it is magic - here certainly seems more complex or more refined in its use, but we've had to endure a lot of catastrophes and wars in our history, the most recent being the Spell Plague which set us back a long way. Our ancient cities would have seemed much more advanced than our modern ones."

We learn that recently our world was "the battleground for a few petty higher powers", powerful beings worshipped as gods by many on Toril. Tarto in so saying alludes to being aware of what Gnog's party already knows - creatures like Tiamat, worshipped as gods, are powerful creatures, but creatures nonetheless.

He asks what we want. Gnog does his best to explain. Apparently the shards can be analysed to at least pinpoint a world where Arxcis is on. We might be able to book passage. Morgan is surprised the outpost even exists; didn't think it was "policy" to observe "worlds like this" - we'll be given an audience with Mert maybe who runs this place.

On the shards, which Tarto examines, there's a **library** at the **Rock of Bral** which should be able to help. On the subject of how to find us as Tarto tries to figure it out... Tarto digs around in his pockets and pulls out a small pebble with a small insignia of stars in a swallow tale formation. It's basically a small sending stone. We have to put it on our hand with the stars pointing up.

Ophithana explains that they sold all of the precious parts - the far South acquisitions like rare spices - for a good price. She figures they'll hang around until they know where we're going. Morgan reveals that they are very happy that they know now that this place exists and can, if they ever need go - well, home. But they are not ready to leave just yet - there's more to do yet in Feyrun. Gnog says he is happy about that - the crew like them, and their importance to them was highlighted by the storm. They will manage without them, as the crew would manage without anyone who felt they had to depart, but it's good to have them around.

Ophithana asks about Cedric so Gnog asks if Cedric wants to sail with Ophithana for a bit and go to see Vajra. Cedric isn't sure. So Gnog says we'll have a think about it and decide later (Cedric really wants to come adventuring and then go home to Duskhollow!).

Gnog says - "well if nothing else, we can show you the parts of this strange place we're allowed to see" - so we all just spread out. Initially we all kind of stick together in a huge group...

* "Observation deck" - a stand-or-sit gallery with wide letterbox windows that look down over a large, empty room that's maybe 120ft in diameter. There are a few runic-like patterns on the metal floor with a slightly domed metal room. There's another similar room next to it. A couple of cadets are there, looking excited. The window looks down onto a battle - the front of a ship, spider-like creatures attacking, spells flying... Wisdom saving: 16; Fee-Ree: nat 1, Deni: 25. Fee-Ree starts to prepare a spell as if to join battle; Gnog is almost sucked in but then realises it's just some sort of projection, or re-enactment; or at least, something at a distance. We can't take part. We watch more. Spider-like creatures swarm. Humanoid creatures, featureless metal faceplates, metallic wings and plate armour, descend, holding metal spears that shoot bright light damaging the spiders. A couple of minutes of fierce battle happen before the cadets start to cheer as the metal humanoids defeat the swarm. Suddenly the illusion fades and we see below a group of cadets in the room below. Gnog enquires; it's "simulation training". Apparently it was a test and the cadets below did well.

* Some people want to watch another, so we go to the third of the three simulation room. Another battle simulation. Cedric "hummms" in an uncertain way and Gnog guesses that he's enjoyed one battle but another is much the same. As everyone's anxieties fade we start to pursue individual curiosity. So our party moves off while others carry on watching (Morgan coming with us).

* There's a restaurant and shop too, but before that we notice a sign for lookout balconies and head that way. They're accessed by a long lift ride, taking almost a minute. We exit the glass sphere lift on a platform which the lift emerged from underneath. This is at the very top of the pillar! There are apparently no visible barriers - just some low decorative railings - but we realise that there's a force barrier that stops people falling on both sides - the outer or the inner 'chimney', which on approach we see is actually a hangar. The metal chute has different ships parked at various levels. We guess that they're flying ships. Some look *somewhat* like ships but with alterations and extensions instead of sails. Others look completely different - a couple of smaller ones look like a large insect; one larger one is a kind of vertical kind of fin shape, with no other obvious structure; another looks almost like a large cannon opening out into a more ship-like shape. Lots of them have various fins or sails along the sides, usually folded up. We see at least 5 ships. Turning and walking out to look over the sea - we see the island spotted briefly earlier; about 2.5 miles away, a few miles across. Not huge. We can't see dwellings from where we are, but there seems to be a harbour of sorts on the side facing us. A low mist obscures some details.
 
Just as we're thinking of the shop, Gnog feels a buzzing and pulls out the sending stone as instructed. An illusion appears above it, a shoulder-up view of Tarto - facing away - so he asks to turn the stone to "face us", which we do. He is able to see where we are and realises we're up high, and asks us to come down to the restaurant - and we start to travel.

Gnog perception: 15+7. He's able to see enough clues/signs to figure out where to go. Quite a complex route.

It's a nice looking place, shaped like a crescent moon built around the kitchen area with the outer area made of a glass wall with a balcony coming off with more seating. Chairs and tables are made of thin metal parts of pale wood - the same minimalist designs as our rooms. As we get in, someone at the bar nods and waves at us; Tarto marches up. We head over. He takes us to a more private area, behind some pale blue curtains; a round table, sat at which is an old-looking humanoid - *almost* human? - who stands and beckons us to sit. We all do so, as Gnog sees a second new person with strange sapphire-blue eyes with no irises or pupils. Very pale skin, light gold, slim, wearing something that's not a uniform but somehow looks formal, including a long, open coat made of a crushed velvet-like purple material with light cream patterns. Shoulder-length pale blue hair. As we approach to sit, a hand is extended - slim, with slim fingers - "I'm **Saerthe Abizin**" - but as he speaks, there's a strange harmonic, as if he speaks faintly in a second pitch at the same - and Gnog shakes the hand, saying "I'm Gnog, this is Fee-Ree, Deni and Cedric" and we sit. "Ah!" says Saerthe, blinking a couple of times while regarding Cedric, and nods. Cedric smiles and cocks his head to one side, then back, then sits. Gnog surmises a telepathic conversation?

The other older guy says "**I'm Mert**" - he runs the place - the Head of "Toril's Spelljammer Academy", as he calls it. We can call him Mert or the Old Wolf. Gnog asks "Oh! Are you a lyncanthrope?" "Oh no!" he laughs. There's a big old scar across the side of his face, which seems old yet not fully healed somehow. "Not at all. It's just a name given to me as I've been around for a long time - I'm part Gith, you see" - he sees Gnog looking at the scar too - "ah, *this* is thanks to Leirol Silverhand - ah, oh you know her?!" (seeing our reaction) - and he goes on to explain of a time when he was in Waterdeep decades ago as one of the Masked Lords of Waterdeep. He'd amassed a fortune, perhaps not entirely legally from Leirol's perspective, and he was an advisor to her so she was unimpressed - well as he puts it "outraged" - he got out alive, but probably can't ever return.

We talk a while about civilisations, not sharing too much dangerous magic, the cataclysm (spell plague); Mert mentions that he things Toril is an island in a sea of chaos, poised for potentially some big changes but he thinks it needs protection "at all costs". We have some cake, at Mert's insistence, with tea.

Finally, "to business". He taps something, which produces an effect of silence / dampening of noise that reminds us of the war council meetings, only without all the mages!

There's discussion about our mission; we bring out the crystal shards; various people look; the Galactic Archive at the Rock of Bral maybe, says Tarto; Saerthe examines a shard - "ah, ruby" - then performs various hand actions, the shards glow; ..."they do contain an essence about them; I have my suspicions! **There is a trace of Sardior** to them, but if that is indeed true, that's very curious indeed. You are probably best to get confirmation from the sages on the Rock of Bral but if I'm not mistaken, and this does contain traces of Sardior then it can only have come from **The Ruby Palace** which is..." - he pauses - "...I hope for your sakes that it's not! That place is notoriously difficult to find. It is a moving citadel floating in the Astral Sea and is one which the normal means of navigation..." - he tapers off and Morgan pipes up - "In the Astral Sea you can navigate by thought; you think of a place and start travelling in that direction, so if a place is protected from navigation it is _very_ difficult to find."

This brings us, in any event, to the issue of getting to the Rock of Bral. It'd have to be a merchant ship as military vessels can't take passengers - "unless you had the means to purchase one" - we enquire about cost. Mert tells us that there's a person who looks after sales in "this sector" and would know for sure, but the going rate he guesses - for something basic - is ten rubies. That would be 50,000 gold - we only have 17,000 or thereabouts.

Mert says we'll leave it with him and he'll see what he can do, as there might be a commercial vessel heading off-world and if so, probably to the Rock first, or at least happy to take a fare that way. He asks if we'd be willing to explore, or aid him in something. Of course! Tarto explains - "So..." - he clears his throat, perhaps nervously?! - "...we believe that we have been the target of espionage in the past - perhaps even currently - and not just that, one of our simulation rooms was sabotaged recently and an instructor and an officer were both very severely injured and had to be taken to the infirmary. Now, it *has* to be an inside job, so we are just - you see - there's a big problem if..." (and Mert jumps in) "...if it sounds like we don't have effective security here we might lose support from Prince Andrew and would be unlikely to continue to justify having the academy here, as there are many who disagree with the risk of having it here."

We wonder how we'd be able to investigate - we don't have access to most of the facility. Saerthe produces three red badges - **they intend to enroll us!** We can move amongst the cadets and speak to them. Morgan is already qualified as a sailor; between the four of us - though we wouldn't be together the whole time - tho Morgan would need to check with Ophithana. But Mert says that they do have some people in the sailor division already, so that's OK, but nobody in the cadets and since they've had no new officers or sailors for months, but several new sets of cadets. It points suspicion that way but is no guarantee.

It's agreed. We're given badges and told to report to Cadet Administration once we've finished sorting things with our crew.

Ophithana is keen to get back within a day or so - the crew have nothing to do. Morgan is happy to be with them. We have to persuade Cedric - Gnog 13+7 - and persuade him to get back to Waterdeep with Morgan, to stay at the Goliath Drinks tower room and hang out with people there, perhaps spend time with Vajra if they can arrange it. We have sending stones so he can send us messages as long as we're still on Toril and we can speak to him. We give him a red badge and green badge for his collection of shinies - tell him they're very precious and they're just for him and should keep them secret (the lady at Administration had actually done something to the two so that they're not "active", just jewellery) and even has a drawer of a few other badges - she lets Cedric choose two more of his favourites! He digs through and is very happy. A monkey-faced one and another that looks like a shooting star.

That night, the whole crew heads to the restaurant and sits out on the balcony - officers, crew and passengers alike, equals for the night as a treat. We while away over food, drink, tall tales and sunset from the balcony. Someone gasps as they notice a placard outside which has dancing lights on it that spell out some characters; Morgan realises that it's telling us that there's a departure happening - so she gets everyone to get to a bubble lift that's close by, so a short while later we're up on the viewing platform. Moonbeam-like lights have activated, pointing directly up. A ship has detached, bulbous shaped and starts to rise; as it does, goldfish-like fins start to unfurl a short amount. The front is rounded, with the rest like a more traditional ship with deck and stern castle. Strange arching sails that bend backwards are risen. The ship rotates as it rises, following the lights. About 100ft up above the top, the fins suddenly unfurl fully - like beautiful fluttering goldfish fins and tail - then it diagonally moves faster and faster away into the sky. The lights fade out we return to the restaurant.

People return to rooms, but doors are open and people chat, moving between them. Morgan brings back Cedric, apparently having promised he can be made crew for the duration of their trip back. He clambers up to a bed and plops down on it, looking excited. He smiles, then his smile fades and he slumps. "I'm not going with you. But you'll be back? Do you know how long you'll be gone?" "I'm afraid we don't know" "You will come back, won't you?" "Well, yes, sooner or later - we just don't know what our journey entails yet." The conversation goes back and forth a bit. Eventually Deni comes up to Cedric and knees on the bed at eye-level. She holds both his hands. "I know you're disappointed that you can't come with us. We're going to miss you as well - it's been such a nice time travelling together. When I went away for summer, I didn't want to go away; I wanted to be in the grove with you all but there were things I had to do and those things helped us get here. We need to try to find Fee-Ree's husband, and we have to go away not because we want to but because we need to. That doesn't mean we don't want to be with you but... While we're away..." - and gives him a list of tasks! Jobs, basically, things she wants him to help her with. Things she'd have liked to do at the Goliath drinks if she hadn't needed to go away - keeping an eye on certain people, helping Druana, tells him about the young kids of the refugee family that we'd found on the road and had ended up helping us with repairs and building. It gives him responsibilities and a reason to be there. He cheers up.

It's late, so we head to sleep.

(END OF PART 3 - Part 4 next)
