# Gnog: Part 14
## Day 39 (Riglan 76 - 6 hours shifted forward) - local day Tuesday (7 day week)

* Ajani is due in four more sunrises after this one at Skarrg.

We awake in the giant red maple, near District 12. Nissa isn't next to us; she must have slept elsewhere. We look around to see if can find her. Gnog perception 17; there is activity down on  the forest floor. The worms are foraging around. We head down to them and Deni lets out water from the endless bottle in case they want a drink. Nissa is next to the worms. "Ah! You're awake. Right. Well I've decided to head into District 10. I'll hide at Vitu Ghazi until the allotted time. There is much that needs to be done in preparation.

Before she goes, Nissa says that she must leave the forest with some protection. "These forests are few and far between". She starts to cast a spell of some kind. "Relax. It will be a minute or two..." - and she draws together what looks like layers of spores travelling in mist around her, coalescing, then sinking like dew onto grass around her. Rising up from where they fall are nature elementals, things made of earth and plant. They set out and form a perimeter, heading to guard the forest edges and keep watch. She also reaches up to the tree and a dryad steps down from there. She thanks the dryad for bounty and provision of shelter and safety; she says she will return and bids the dryad farewell and safety. The dryad says that she'll keep an eye on things and alert Nissa if anyone else comes looking.

We get back on the worms and head away. Nissa rides with Levinia and Taz. Three per worm.

A little more scary in some ways - we plunge *down* the cliff this time, but at least we know it's coming! About two hours later we're emerging near the ridgeline close to D10 and descending through the treetops and canopy. We stop a short distance from the edge of the cluster of verdani surrounding Vitu Ghazi. Levinia is very happy, but she has to run off! She says it's been very fun. We thank her. During the trip, Gnog has been getting the ritual up to talk to the worm, so as we stop he can thank it and the other via it. The two worms nod thanks and dive back out.

Gnog says to Nissa, "We'll be on our way; thank you for protecting that forest. They mean a lot to me as well. Maybe one day I'll tell you that story." "Let's promise to do that!" she responds, and heads towards Vitu Ghazi. She's attracting attention, so hiding from Tesseret won't be easy. She puts up her hood!

It's approaching midday; we make our way to Precinct 1 before 2, to find our magic shop again. "The Arcana Majoris". We know of many others in P5, if it comes to it, but first we head in to this one and ask about a Water Breathing scroll. He does have one; 150gp. We ask about rare inks - yes he has those too; 300gp all-in. 

Almost on a whim and expecting "no", we ask about protection against conflagration - soul stealing - "if it were real, that is". Surprisingly he answers "yes"; if we were minded to worry about such things, there are indeed artefacts that ought to help provide a measure of protection. There are for instance Ioun stones which can help; if it were a spell that was being cast, Ioun stones could absorb a certain amount of the magic. It is something used by those who are trying to protect themselves from magic. "How much is such an object?" "Depends on the power of the stone. The more powerful, the more it can absorb; and of course, the more expensive. But if the stone cannot absorb the full power of a spell, it would fail completely." He has one for 800pp which protects on the equivalent of up to 10 levels of spell. Requires attunement. There are stories of stones that can take up to 20 levels of power... This kind of magic does come in another form, but like Ioun stones, only works for spells targeting the bearer and requires attunement. It can store much more - potentially dozens of spell levels. He shows Gnog a Rod Of Absorption. It looks like a sceptre of sorts. 4650pp. We'd have to trade something very powerful for that.

We head out and look for lunch. P1 is expensive. We cut across past Augustin Station to P2. We find various taverns in the area between Whitestone and Griffin Heights. Several inns line the main street there. They tend to have restaurants. There are some cafes too. There's a large general store nearby and a book store, too. We're in a tavern mood:

* **The Original Whitestone Tavern**
* **The Braying Donkey**
* **Hero's Respite** (with a big drawing of Agrus Kos)

A slam-dunk for Braying Donkey, obviously. Old looking woodblock and woodcut motifs are around on the wall along with a large, old photo of a donkey pulling a cart with two old-timey sort of people standing next to it. The donkey is mid-bray. They're in front of an old-looking shop front, which we think is what is now this tavern. So Gnog strides up to the bar - beautiful, polished wood with two bartenders - and says, "What's with the donkey?!" "Its owner always used to come and drink here, so the story goes - a long time ago now - people always used to comment about how the donkey would just bray constantly, so that's how we got the name. But we're more famous for our original ales. That's why the minors like to stop along here. We're the oldest pub on the street. Even older than The Original!" Ale recommendation time. Three ales are drawn on tap. "Tell me which you like most". We try them. A dark amber one, a light almost citrus one and a very light and slightly astringent, hoppy one. The dark one reminds Gnog of Dwarven ale, so that's his choice. Deni likes the second one. Fee-Ree likes the dark one as well. Three small tastes are drawn for Taz too, and he likes the hoppy one best. The aromatic nature is interesting.

We get two of the amber and one of the citrus ale and enquire about food. A wooden menu is rolled over on rails above the bar. Seasonal lamb neck stew, roast cauliflower with spice - a nod to P4 - all-day coddled eggs with tomato and beans, or finally, they always have a thick cut of beef and potato available. So Gnog goes with beef, despite worrying that he's not active enough to justify it. Fee-Ree goes with stew and Deni tries the cauliflower. We can swap stuff around anyway. 1 zino and 2 Azorious silvers.

We sit down and soon enough the food turns up, coming with rustic bread and a big lump of churned butter. The beef is indeed a very thick cut as advertised, very good. The stew is rich but with bones so a bit fiddly, very tasty though. The cauliflower is good but Deni says it's not as warmly spicy as P4. It's the P2-safe version of P4! Still, good effort all round. As we eat, a few other people come in; some merchants, some in tidy suits presumably on a lunch break. It gets lively after a while but not packed full. Music starts up as someone in a corner starts playing a concertina. It's a well-run place and it feels like a lot of features and furniture are original, just well maintained.

About 30-40 minutes later we're finishing up and asked if we want anything more. Desert maybe? Tempting but Gnog's worried about getting fat! Eventually, we head out. It's a place we'd return to if in the area. We wander down to Griffin Heights; on a whim, we figure renting a room might be a good idea. Whitestone is in the Orzhov's grip. Griffin Heights is a little poorer and closer to New Prahv. We look for an inn.

Gnog perception only 4+8->12. Gnog is drawn to something with a bit of a vantage point for some reason; we pass a few inns that are lower down; then reach an area that's higher on the hill with 4-storey buildings against a backdrop of 2-3 stories around. There's a particular row of better-kept buildings with sloping roofs with attic rooms up top. That seems promising. There are two inns next to each other in that row (what is it with Ravnica and having two inns next door to each other?)

* **The Holleran**
* **The Old Statesman**

We try Holleran first. We ask specifically about a top-floor room to sleep three. There's one up there with two bedrooms; that'll work. For just the one night, 5 zino. We pay up. They offer to take up our bags but we keep them on us. We're escorted up - there's a mechanical lift that takes us up the top floor. The room is on the left. The door is unlocked and we're handed the key. All very polite and formal.

Once on our own, we take stock. It's a high quality room, but not ostentatious. It has a main area with some side tables and central dining table of sorts, with 6 seats around it. There are armchairs that look out onto a small Juliette balcony extending into the roofline. The windows are quite ornate and give us a good view out over the buildings around. Both bedrooms face out that way too, surprisingly, with windows that open (but no balcony). There's even a small kitchenette area in addition to a bathroom. It's a lot of money but then again, Waterdeep might struggle to provide something this big for that price.

We settle in for a while and make some tea. It gives us a chance to unwind again. Taz strums quietly on his dulcimer again. The moment to reflect in a quiet space, with just the four of us, gives Gnog a bit of an epiphany. He laughs out loud, almost also crying; a sudden sound.

"This whole thing! The whole quest. From start to finish. It's about, well, I feel silly maybe, but it's about - love. Of all of us; friendships, spouses, all of it. We're not here for fire, at least not only that. Nissa showed us - we're here because our bond is unbreakable. *Unbreakable* - us! They can't break us. Not our love at least, not ever. Cultists and dragons couldn't, and neither will this lot. Not Rakdos or Niv or Nicol or Tesseret, none of them. Even if we die, *even then* we'll be together in our hearts. It can't ever be taken. That's special. That's why we fight."

We decide to just relax here. We can get showered and changed; Deni gets 2-3 hours into copying her new scroll. Eventually it's time to head to Whitestone and the gallery. Gnog's just in his adventurer clothes. Taz has been given a polish and his hat is all fixed up from earlier. Deni is in her red dragon leather armour but with a short jacket and smart leather boots that she has rather than cloak and boots of Elvenkind or winter. She even manages to cut her hair, into a shorter style, down to just below the ears rather than over the shoulder; apparently she tells us later, using a dagger. Taz says, "How did you do that by yourself?! It looks good!" Fee-Ree has one of her smart dresses on. It's cerulean blue, silk. She does still carry the scary staff, but with the blue-and-blue, it has a kind of cosmic air. Gnog takes her by the hand, bows theatrically, kisses the hand and says, "madam, would you care to accompany me to the gallery?!" and Taz apes the gesture with Deni.

Gnog stows all weapons (no open carry P1-style) except the greataxe, which he straps in a theatrical across-the-back diagonal way, so it looks kind of like a prop, but at the same time, he might read as a bodyguard for Fee-Ree and Deni.

Off we go!

We get to the gallery; as we suspected, there's an opening for some kind of exhibit - "**A Mirror Unto Itself - Ravnica Since The DMn**". The gallery itself is called the **Mossin Gallery**. We head into the gallery with our four cards ready. The invitations are checked by Orzhov bouncers at the door. Gnog is told to surrender or stow the axe - no way is he surrendering it! - so he puts it carefully in the bag of holding, which the bouncers seem a little intrigued by, surprisingly.

We walk in. It's three storey, white stone, pillars and double-height columns at the front, lots of tall rectangular glass windows. The inside is double-height too, to accommodate the art. A bar is to the right. Some waiters serve and spirits are helping clean. They come around with glasses of sparkling wine; Gnog decides to keep a clear head. Fee-Ree gets one immediately and hands it to Deni; "You don't have to drink it. But if you hold it, nobody else comes and bothers you!" and Gnog quietly kicks himself for not having thought of that! 

To the left we see a small lounge of sorts where people are sat, chatting. Straight ahead is a semicircular desk with a concierge and some kind of diagram of the art. We wonder what to do next. Maybe there are clues like the library? Deni checks the art layout; she can't see a pattern or code in that. We elect to watch the exhibit via the suggested pathway / order, to see if there's anything in the art itself or, maybe, we just get approached by the Dimir.

It starts with a side gallery of smaller pieces of art; it's off to one side and single-storey here. Dimmer light. Feels almost museum-like. The art is, well, more of a collection; it's not a single person. "**The Academy**" is presenting it - a collection of artists belong to this body, apparently. These are painted pieces, but somehow look like moody black and white versions of the pictures that the goblins at Nivix took of our party. The painting has a kind of grain. It's quite impressive as a style.

The route leads back to the main room which has some huge sculptural pieces in the centre, almost reaching the top of the two-storey space. Massive canvases, 10-12ft tall in the largest cases, are hung. Smaller canvases are also present, hung on the outside of single-storey high cube-shaped mountings that are placed within the gallery floor and help break up line of sight to appreciate the bigger sculptures more easily. One particularly impressive canvas is 15x15ft and good not just because of scale! They all tend to have colour, but many seem to focus on motion and energy. Some of Zonot Seven particularly so.

Gnog (perception only 3+8->11) is drawn to a particular piece, with striking red, black and orange colours. Whether or not it's good art he couldn't say, but it looks like a view from ground level of bonfires and smoke in the background, with blurry city lights and silhouettes in the distance, but in the foreground, crazed-looking parts of faces of goblins as if shouting and yelling, looking happy; there's an abstract nature; some muscular arms are visible within the melee. It's a view of some kind of wrestling / test of strength match of the Gruul, as if from the perspective of someone who'd actually been pushed down onto the ground. A frozen moment of chaos. Underneath, "Sprung at Skarrg". Mixed Media Including Artist's Own Blood. Gnog's tempted, but it doesn't have a price tag! He searches around a bit and, presumably seeing this, an older human - salt & pepper hear and trimmed beard - comes up to offer assistance. "I think you want the catalogue? They have them at the concierge desk!" so Gnog thanks him and nips over to the desk, gets a catalogue, comes back to the painting and flips through to find it. There it is; "Sprung At Skarrg", 1200gp. Hmm. Maybe a bit rich for our party?! Deni comes over. "Don't even think about it! Where would you put this? It's 12ft tall!" - Gnog hadn't really noticed the size. "Ah. Yes. I was thinking Goliath Drinks? But yes, I suppose I lost the sense of scale amongst all the big pieces. I wish there was a smaller one." Deni points out that the catalogue has little pictures of the art... Not quite the same...

We carry on the tour, but Gnog keeps an eye out for that artist's stuff, just in case.

And so it goes on. Sculptures that from one angle look like a beautiful woman, but from another a demon - Rakdos/Gore House style - some watercolours of e.g. the platform, other technical line art, some are uncomfortable; they try to capture madness (and seem to do quite well at it!). A bit too soon after our Rix Maadi experience.

Canapes are served. Yes. Nom. Gnog is asked again if he wants a drink; he now takes a glass. A while later, Gnog sees something of similar abstract style to the Gruul canvas, but smaller - on one of the single-storey cubes - that's trying to portray Selesnyans, the conclave. Green, nature, verdant, people around, an area showing the same thing, trying to portray he things the shared experience, or emotion. It kind of works. As he tries to figure it out, a lady in a white gown comes along side to look at it too. She asks what he thinks it means. He answers; "I think the artist is doing alright, but it does need some explaining. Have you seen this piece, here?" and shows him a much larger piece against a wall. Gnog has an inkling this is a Dimir thing. "But what's really caught my eye is those there, that cube. Called Invitation. I'm drawn to them but find them a bit disturbing..." - she wanders off. Gnog gathers the others, briefly explains and we head to the "Invitation" cube.

Four paintings, all done by the same artist that did the Gruul painting. Smaller, but they belong in a set. They all play with perspective, as did the other work. Backgrounds are similar; the "out of focus", daubs of colour, light or smoke to give an impression of location.

* A dryad, eyes focused on "you", leaning down with hand outstretched. Lots of expression and detail but only on parts of the body, the face in particular.
* Two viashino, a goblin peeking out behind, one viashino holding a shield up, the other leaning forward and again offering a hand to "you", the viewer of the painting.
* Three very beautiful androgynous beings with perfectly smooth, dark skin, standing back-to-back, but leaning down as if to caress "you".
* A pool; growing out of it, mushrooms and tendrils - things that look like decay; the pool seems to be kind swampy; it's a creature, shrouded in bits of darkness, snakes emerging from behind its head, medusa-like, snake eyes on its face and a hand covering part of its face; another reaching out from the pool again to "you".

We stand a while at the second one, the viashino, because of the confusion about the shield and goblin; an attack? Defence? We're not sure. Out of the corner of his eye Gnog spots someone he's seen before; he seems to hover around us a bit! Then he speaks - "don't react; just keep looking; we can talk here. Eyes forward!"

He continues. "We've been watching you. You've, I trust, seen the memory?" "Yep!" "Does it answer some questions you have?" "Filled in some blanks that we didn't exactly have questions for, because we didn't know what to ask." The man moves to another picture on the cube; he's no longer on the adjacent wall but opposite us. We move around "one wall" to stay in relative position around the corner.

He continues, "Before anything else, do you have any questions for me?" Gnog repeats the question he asked at the pool. "Are you aware that Nicol Bolas is behind Tezzeret's intervention, and we think plans to invade this planet wholesale to harvest it?" "Yes." "Do you have a plan of your own to tackle that?" "We don't usually interfere; we collect information. However, Management has made an exception this time for a simple matter of survival." "No shit!" "We don't have the power to do anything. We can misdirect - and we have been to the best of our ability, but Tesseret is catching up to us. We do not like being exposed."

Gnog says, "We have some power, and we are gathering friends that Niv called here, though we know not at this time our exact role or what we should do. If you have any information on location of machinery or red crystals that Tesseret has been moving around, we might be able to try and recover some, which helps Nivix and hinders him?" "They're being moved every day; it's taking a lot of resources to track them. We do have other information that you might be interested in..." "Well, even if we knew where some of that kit was, there's no denying that it'd be very high risk for us to try and pull it back; a face-to-face conflict Tesseret at this stage might be beyond our ability to survive. So, sure! All information. Fire away."

He moves to the next picture; so do we. "Unfortunately, we no longer have that luxury. We have come in direct conflict with him. It is only a matter of time before he catches up to you." "Yes, which is why information - or magical artefacts, or both! - are of interest. What do you know?" **"What if I were to tell you that we've located Jace?"**

Gnog is caught off guard by that. Takes a moment before he says, "Then, regrettably, my bargaining position would be poor; I'd probably pay ever piece of gold that we have for *that* if it were reliable."

"Let's carry on this conversation in one of the private galleries upstairs. A private viewing." "Whatever you want; you've got us eating out of your hand after mentioning *that*."

He walks off. Momentarily, an attendant approaches. "It's our understanding that you'd like a private room of one of the sculptures in the upstairs gallery?" "Yes please." "Come this way. We do not replenish glasses in the private rooms, so you may wish to obtain a refill." "No, thank you, we're fine." We are led to a room. Soft lighting, with a central spotlight presumably where a sculpture would be - though none stands there now. Seating around the sides. "A curator will be in shortly with the piece you requested." "Thank you".

An older human walks in, pushing a pedestal with a sculpture; places it in the middle of the room; shuts and locks the door with himself and us inside. He goes up to the sculpture, rotates part of it somehow, moves it around; and the sound of the outside world disappears.

"We haven't got long. What would you do with the information of his location?" we are asked.

Gnog tries his best to answer truthfully, though we aren't actually too sure ourselves yet. "Go there in person to fetch him, or if we had someone we trusted, have them do it instead. He is needed here, unless he has good reason not to."

"What if he refuses to come? What would you do?"

"We wouldn't use force. We don't know his capabilities anyway. In theory, there's a chance we kill him, precogs and all that - you might even know - but we *think* the weapon was from someone else, so in fact, he needs protecting. It's likely then that he needs protection *here*, not wherever he's hiding, so I think we're likely successful, but we're going to need to figure out how to do better once he's here - even though we yet know what 'better' or 'worse' is. In the end, all we could is remind him that willing or not, the Living Guild Pact's absence from Ravnica opens it to attack, and that if successful, the attacks would spread everywhere else with nothing to stop them. He couldn't hide anywhere, nobody could. So, staying away is futile."

"What are your intentions once you get him back here?"

"Unite the Five, I guess; the Gatewatch; figure out between us what's being planned, see if Nivix's defence will work, if not, figure out a counter. Time is short. Knowledge is sparse."

The Dimir representative frowns. "Hmm. Very well. Then I propose a change of terms. We do not see what you can hope to achieve by seeing him personally and in fact you've suggested there may be danger with that course of action. Instead, what we will offer to sell you is getting another agent there, to deliver the persuasion of which you speak; to impress upon him the importance and expediency of his return. Does this sound acceptable?"

"I'm not sure I can accept that. I'd need to know who, their method and nature of persuasion, travel times, expected time to know the outcome and perhaps, if you failed to convince him, assurance that in *that* case, you would pass us the details of his location."

"We will tell you where to find him, but the cost - the price of giving you that location - is your agreement that we pursue this other course of action first. The cost of that other course of action is that you agree that you will make sure the Four are brought together and work together. It must happen. That is the cost."

It takes a while for Gnog to grasp this. We aren't really in a negotiation, as he expected; or at least, not in one where terms are suggested to-and-fro. It seems that if we make a request, the reaction is quite strong from the Dimir side and there's a risk of this being screwed up completely. But if they try to coerce Jace, Gnog is really worried that he'd never cooperate once back on Ravnica. So he has to take a risk... Gnog repeats, "I don't need to know the location if you succeed, only if you fail. I'm asking about your methods and the timings. There's no point Jace being dragged here angry and uncooperative, or beaten up or whatever." Persuasion 17+7.

He thinks; he's trying to figure out what that information would cost us. "I'm not authorised to close this deal with you in its new form. I will have to consult someone."

"Who long will that take?"

"A day, perhaps two"

The Dimir hold all the cards. That kind of delay could be the difference between life or death for the planet. We don't know, so there's certainly no way we can risk it. Gnog takes a deep breath... He's not actually sure what he's agreeing to here and we might have to do things with which we are very uncomfortable to meet our end of the deal, but it's got to be risked... "OK. My apologies; I withdraw that request. The Dimir will send a representative to fetch Jace, as you described. We would still like to know Jace's location; so we agree to your terms for that deal. We therefore commit to bringing the Four together in Jace's absence and, in due course, the Five, whatever that might entail."

(Taz raises his eyebrows at the last four words. Gnog notices. He's never seen Taz do that before.)

The Dimir representative goes back to the statue in the middle of the room and pulls out a small vial from the back of the statue of the sculpture. He repeats what we've agreed to and says "So, we can seal the deal? Don't be afraid, this isn't going to hurt..." - he puts a finger to Gnog's head and there's a strange, sharp sensation, like a very short headache - not exactly "doesn't hurt!" - and he pulls out a thread, putting it into the vial; he repeats that for himself, adding that thread too. He seals it, casts some kind of spell which seems to cause the threads to duplicate; then he pours the duplicates (or at least, one of each) into a companion vial which he hands to us. We each have a copy - assuming it was accurately copied, of course. We have to take that on trust.

"If you need to find me..." he says - and gives Gnog a small scroll with a number of symbols on it - "...then I believe the young lady understands how this works. It'll work for as long as this exhibit is running - three weeks." Gnog asks, "And what if you need to find *us*?" "We'll just come and see you!" "But we're moving around so Tesseret finds us hard to locate." "Ha! We have means that Tesseret lacks. This is after all our city, not his. Right. Enjoy the rest of the exhibit!" and off he goes, wheeling out the sculpture.

Taz immediately turns to Gnog and says, sounding shocked, "Gnog! What did you just agree to?"

"Don't truthfully know, but it's something I think we have to somehow achieve regardless. Without the Four, or Five, it seems we are nothing."

Deni asks how we might find Kaya. A good question. We only have 3 more sunrises to Skarrg and Ajani, about whom we know nothing. At least we think Nissa is on side. And we were only required to commit to the *Four* even though we know we need to try for Five once Jace is back.

Gnog thinks maybe Azorious/Boros; Feather? Fee-Ree suggests Orzhov. Actually not a bad plan, but who do we... Ah! Earnest! We have his card, too. We find the card and examine it for an address. P2, Whitestone no less. Handy - practically next door! Closed, but opens at 9am. Gnog thinks out loud about finding a tavern for the evening, but Deni points out that food and drink are on tap for free here so we spend a while "looking at the art" (drinking and eating a lot) and find that the art becomes more approachable the more we drink.

Gnog wonders if there's any more art by the artist he'd liked. The best one was too big and the four in series were a bit too disturbing. We do find two more (investigation 16+1); but large still, 8ft x 8ft. One is Gruul; "Revelry"; foreground goblins looking a bit surprised somehow and running 'towards' the artist. In the background a couple of minotaurs in Boros gear are chasing. The other is different in style. Selesnyans, singing in their chorus, but a strange low angle again; the people appear to be looking at something behind the artist.

Gnog tries to flag down someone to ask about this artist; are they actually really small or lie on the floor or what?! It's apparently commissioned through an agent and they've never met the artist. A bit of a mystery in the art world. The signatures are all simply, "**The Jayne**".

Eventually we finish up and wander back towards the hotel. Fee-Ree thought it was a surprisingly pleasant night! "We haven't done really civilised things like this in a very long time... Not since back in Waterdeep." Speaking of civilised, we pass some quite civilised / well presented bars/taverns. It's a little "cold" - unfriendly - but that aside, quite nice. Not as quiet or civic as P1, but obviously not the chaos of P4.

"Funny, it didn't take long after all, did it? To start to get to know it a bit. Understand the precincts and their differences, find our way around, understand the people a bit more. I mean, not as quite as Waterdeep, but all things considered..."

Back at the hotel, there's a small bar with bartender cleaning some bottles. We opt for a nightcap. "Mead?" asks Gnog, to Fee-Ree. She asks about options. Two bottles are produced; one is relatively local and another is from quite a distance away. District 17. They discuss the tastes and he offers her the more local one based on the conversation. Gnog has the same. Taz can taste it. Deni asks the bartender what he lies - apparently, he practices and studies mixing drinks. He demonstrates. She describes the kinds of tastes she likes; refreshing, a little sour, not too thin. All-in, 2 zinos. Deni is amazed at hers! (Good thing too - 1gp) Very different, but very good she says. She asks what's in it; lemon and gin base but, surprisingly, it has a small amount of egg in it.

NEW THING FOR TAVERN? We need to read more about drink mixing! That said - it seemed quite complex.

We finish up; just the one drink seemed on the mark. We thank the bartender. Deni asks how she finds out more about them; they're not so common he says, but getting more common in P2 and possibly found in P1. No books on it - knowledge is being passed around. He suggests a bar where he learned how to make them.

Taz "sleeps" on a chair, since he's tried a bed before and found it a bit boring staring at the ceiling!



## Day 40 (Riglan 77 - 6 hours shifted forward) - local day Wednesday (7 day week)

* Ajani is due in three more sunrises after this one at Skarrg.

We wake up in the hotel room to find an envelope has been pushed under the door. Given past experience with notes under doors, Fee-Ree opens it with Mage Hand! It merely contains a note; "You are invited to breakfast in the dining room". Hours are written underneath. We head down, since we've got a little time to kill before Earnest's place opens. Eggs, home-made toast, coffee; not fancy, well cooked, kind of Waterdeep homely. Shame we have to move on, really. Fee-Ree and Deni are quite fond of the area. Gnog's persuaded that we could stay another night or so without undue risk. After breakfast, he pays another 5 zino to keep the room.

Off we go to Earnest's address. It's not an office but not apparently much of a shop either. A few objects - art, historical pieces, books - might be for sale, but it's not clear. Could just be a form of Orzhov wealth display perhaps; there's certainly no obvious counter or place to buy stuff. It has "Traders" on the sign outside, anyway. There's a side room that seems to be an actual office and a small private meeting or conversation room out the back.

Earnest greets us. General pleasantries; coffee is given to all of us. We say we're looking for someone and he takes us to the private room. We explain it's Kaya. He doesn't seem fazed at all and various questions are asked. Eventually, we down to price; 1pp. He heads to his office and prepares something, coming back with four envelopes containing invitations into the **Chamber Of The Council** in the **Orhova**. That's where we'll find Kaya during the day because that's where she works, since she advises the Ghost Council. Gaining access is difficult so that's really what we are paying for. Handily, the Orzhova is shielded from scrying.

We thank him and head directly to P1 and the Orzhova. It has a strange familiarity now, after having spent so many hours being shown the ins and outs. We find a supplicant who takes us to a priest and the priest takes us to somewhere new - so we *didn't* see it all before. We are taken through a courtyard and up stairs that seem to be under the largest spire. We're shown to the Chamber Of The Council. It's huge! A 6-storey, *hollow* structure at the base of the huge spire. There are galleries in all directions. Hovering / flying between galleries are various spirits - mostly old and fat looking! - debating endlessly with each other; we're told to keep our voices quiet and not interrupt any deliberations. They all seem dressed in whatever they were *buried* in, so it's typically quite over-the-top, ornate clothing. Some wear pontifect hats as if bishops or popes. A few living people - interestingly, dressed similarly, only with long, white, satin lapels - are dotted around.

Gnog perception (with luck! Original roll 4) 11+8 -> 19. It takes a little while but we eventually spot a familiar-looking afro `:-)` on the 4th level. We head over. She sees us, of course, before we have to say anything. She has a look that's somewhere between surprised and somewhat grumpy. She excuses herself from spirits she is with and heads over to us. She immediately escorts us out - the short version, later, is that these are *not* good people she's with and it's unsafe for us to be in that area. Then she gathers some things from an office and takes us out completely, towards P6, after checking if any of us were afraid of heights (!). Rather than going under Tin Street to P6, though, she takes us to service buildings alongside Tin Street and ascends a series of increasingly shaky stairs and ladders until we are on the rooftops. Gnog is *very* aware of his weight on the ladders!

We "walk and talk" atop the buildings.

It is difficult for Kaya to believe that Niv orchestrated things. We try our best (Gnog persuasion with bardic inspiration from Taz 22). We talk of Nissa and Ajani, of Jace (of whom she seems very unconcerned); about Nicol Bolas destroying, well, everything. Curiously hard to reach. The issue of maybe Nissa knowing most about the *past* comes up and Kaya asks if she'd be a leader; unimpressed response to that, an air of being competitive. Taz perusasion 27 talks about it being either a coalition of Five or a leader arising depending on which of our skills is enough at a given time.

The TL;DR of a long conversation is that Kaya will continue to seek Tesseret and the red crystals, but won't try and engage Tesseret alone. Hopefully. **We are working together**, basically, and we'll reconvene - if not sooner - at Skaarg in 3 sunrises (Saturday).

**She also suggests talking to Nissa together. We agree to meet at the Vitu-Ghazi Selesnyan library tomorrow at midday.**

Kaya jumps off (of course she does) and vanishes. We take the slower route - Gnog, very gingerly - down the ladders and rickety external stairs.

Talking to Kaya about recent events reminds us to check in at Nivix to see how Ral is getting on. We aren't sure how to regain access, now it comes to it; we figure we'll try the front door rather than the "goblins and furnace room" route (!) and see if we can someone to tell Ral that we're here. It's not far, and still early; some time after 11am.

We figure that the easier thing might be to find the goblins. We know the school and it's not like there are guards stopping us in most areas. So, we search for Gibo and Bebe, talking our way through asking questions - Taz persuasion 24 trying to gain lab access - and happily we're allowed to take the main stairway to the floating lift we've used before when taken to see Ral. We get up to the relevant level and, from there, can reach the Laboratory Of Storms & Electricity. We're shown through to a laboratory *within* that which is specialising in the red crystals. There's a front desk, and they know Gibo and Bebe; but interesting we're told to wear protective clothing (goggles, gloves and boots) to get in. We haven't done that before! Safety first, today...?

Gibo and Bebe are there - looking at bit manic, embroiled in their experiments and apparently enjoying working with others. Gibo runs from one side of the room to another, apparently in a brief panic about having not plugged something in, apparently in the nick of time for an experiment. Equipment, previously making distressing high-pitched wines, seems to settle. They see us and a briefly distracted, but make hasty apologies and return to focusing on their experiment.

We hear a resonant humming. Two red crystals are next to each other; they are both outputting energy and amplifying. A few minutes go by and they seem fairly happy, "It's not quite stable... But we can make it stable..." - and finally things are shut down. They say they're taking a break because "our friends have come to visit!"

Hugs all round. We ask how they're doing. "We've managed to increase the output by about 286.5%!" - which is amazing, means 30 crystals could now be worth 80. Not stable enough yet - they can do that at 160%. They ask how their mum is but can't take breaks to go and visit, they're just too busy! They're also very excited as they are researchers so are allowed into the canteen, and take us there enthusiastically, bringing us in as guests. We all have sandwiches (and the goblins out-eat Gnog!).

Eventually we finish up after smalltalk and all that, and they have to get back to work so we head up, bid them farewell, promise we'll check in with their mother again and make sure she's OK - and they write another small letter for her - and they help us with Ral by looking around and finding the person we met on that first day, who took Gibo and Bebe in; he's happy to take us to Ral, warning us to be careful in case of ongoing experiments.

We head in, with due caution! Lots of activity. He's there but busy and we wait a while, but he's very involved with the work - no active experiment, tho - so we head over, avoiding numerous lab assistants who are busy building something. "Hello Ral", says Gnog. It takes Ral a while to 'get his head out' of what he was into; he moves us over to a safe corner; Gnog starts giving him a catchup, then stops himself and suggests Ral's office. Gnog talks quietly to Ral with his back to the office windows, then brings him up to speed about the *Five* and Jace being found.

Ral then talks about crystals - people are en route. Not found yet. Then he reveals that they've done a stock take and various pieces of the original IPB are missing. They wouldn't be able to make the IPB work again if needed, but the *disruptor* project is fine. It's not clear what anyone could do with those parts; Ral isn't sure.

Ral then says he's nervous about getting the red crystals down to Ravnica, if they're found. He asks if we can do it in our own ship. He's even more keen on that when we tell him about Kaya's warning of the illegality of the operation. We must:

* Find a place on Ravnica to hide our ship in the Red Wastes, so it's safe but we're also close enough to Nivix to haul the crystals in without being spotted as illegal importers
* Avoid anyone on Ravnica Station from the Infinite Consortium, which probably means any Mercane at the least, or Xaryxian
* We have an Izzet rune key from Ral with his insignia which the mercenaries will recognise and allow us to move the crystals onward - it contains the contract information basically, with payment, so we hand it over and they return the crystals; this means also that the mercs don't know the crystals are going to the planet
* How do we recognise the mercs? Ral describes them - a ragtag team! Two hadozee with a plasmoid pilot, unknown ship type, expected back into Ravnica Station dock by tomorrow (so if we can portal up after the meeting with Nissa and Kaya, we shouldn't have long to wait - they might even already be there)
* We still have to wait until District 10 nightfall to come back down and there's the matter of position of the moon if we're to portal up safely - unless we just risk it and teleport blind; or wait until early evening to jump up and meet the mercs
* Ral gives us an Izzet signet ring, to preset at Nivix when we get back - at the main entrance - which will mean us plus our payload are conveyed quickly and discretely to his lab.

We thank Ral. We'll figure it out one way or another!

On that front, it's early afternoon; **we head North, retracing our steps up into the Red Wastes**. If we've got to walk the crystals back somehow, we need to know a good route. Taz history (with adv. due to help) 17+10->27, so we find the entrance/exit that would lead us down to the subway with the goblin lady. We could ask her, if she's there. We go down and, yep, she's there. "These tunnels go for miles, these old tunnels; you could just walk to opening where the ships fly in and see there?" - might be a long way, but there could be side tunnels or similar, so we head over and start the long walk.

We're looking for side-tunnels to help reduce the distance (we're headed *away* from D10, deeper under the wastes, since the ships fly in via a cliff area where the tunnel is exposed on a sheered-off face). About a mile or so in, some 20-30 minutes is a side-tunnel with a disused station but there's a lot of rubble. We set to work clearing it straight away. Gnog & Fee-Ree (Gnog strength adv 10+10) are able to clear a lot of rubble. Taz is able to help with a large lump using Levitation from the dulcimer; he moves it around so that it creates a kind of alcove that helps hide the ship around that corner. Someone walking or flying past in the tunnel wouldn't see it without investigating quite closely. He *thinks* he can fly that tight path OK under Ravnica's gravity planes and therefore with wings extended. Deni isn't feeling too useful, but we ask her to scout out ways up - exits - anything we can use to disguise our payload once we're back down on planet. Deni comes back a while later; no path found to the surface from this station. The best we can do is walk back down the tunnel and use the known exit from before. With the side tunnel prepared we head back to the goblin lady and ask if she minds if we brought over some kind of small cart and tarp down here to leave ready for transport later. "It's not my kingdom!" she says. We thank her. We head up again, realising that if we do have a cart, we'll need another levitation spell to get it up all the stairs and then once up in the red wastes - easy. "Or", says Deni, "We could find a scroll of, well, I don't know; I'm sure there's magic..." she looks in a book - "Tensor's Floating Disc! That. We need a scroll." We agree on the spell to get up the stairs, but the cart thereafter to avoid unwanted attention.

It's easy to find a beaten up old cart and tarp in P4. We know the drill here - we get various bits of random crap to spread in there, and the tarp will cover the real payload. The cart is only 2 Azorious silvers. Another 5 zibs (standard coppers) for the tarp and sundries. We bring it down the stairs back to the goblin's area by hand. She asks if we want her to look after it. "Yes please, and of course, this being a job, we would pay." "Oh! I would never ask... But if I *did* ask I'd be asking for an Azorious silver a day". "Done!" - very quickly she hides the cart; soon enough it looks like the other crap around here! Perfect. We thank her and head back up.

We get back to P4 around 5pm. It's a familiar time for us here - closing of shops, changing of guards. We figure, early evening food? We head to our old food court and surprisingly some of the familiar faces are there. We're ribbed a bit about having vanished for days. We point out as politely as we can that as sometimes happens in P4, one can find oneself in need of some anonymity and difficulty of finding for a period...! "That's what community is for. Community can cover your back. Remember, if you ever need a distraction, just send the world." Gnog thanks them and says, "If we need to, we will, but we'll be cautious about that, because some of the characters we're avoiding could be rather dangerous and we're *not* putting anybody in harm's way."

We eat and drink and chat nonsense like old times. Taz rolls a nat 17 persuasion to hear rumours - that's a total of *30*. We eat our fill of favourite foods, buy drinks for people and so-on; 2 gold spent, a lot in P4 if not a lot elsewhere; it helps raise the mood and the community talk more freely. 

* Word on the street is that Boros have come to an agreement after the release of Krenko to stop pursuing him, as they've decided they needs to be on the Gruul. The Boros think the Gruul are getting out of control. There have even been raids into P4 itself; the locals, on that account, are actually quite thankful for the Boros. A couple of huge, wild giant boar (they're huge! mammoth sized) rampaged through the Red Wastes in with a group of Gruul and got to P4, causing a fair bit of damage, but fortunately most of that was confined to the *largely* abandoned Northernmost part of the district. Some say there was even a large elemental creature made of cinder and ash? The Boros saw them off. "It's been a while since we've seen a full company of angels flying out from Sunhome."

* There's major turmoil happening in the undercity amongst the Golgari. Some kind of a power struggle. There have been a few key Devkaren undead leaders *turned to stone* - not good at all! - which has, at least, put an end to Golgari incursions on the surface since it seems they have their own problems going on internally.

It reminds us that civil war can arise from multiple fronts - guilds starting to fight amongst themselves, until one side wins; if that side is the dominant one, the "wrong" one, then it could rampage forth from there.

It also reminds us that we never found out what the equivalent mess was in the Dimir. We're trusting them quite a lot yet we know still very little about them and don't know if they have similar internal issues; nor do we know which "side", if such a thing even exists given their structure, we are engaging. What if it's the wrong one?

We're there for a good 3+ hours, listening to gossip catching up, playing dice games, Taz plays music and so-on; eventually ambling home as it's approaching 9-ish and things are quietening down as usual. On the walk back Gnog reassures Deni that he's not going to intentionally call upon the community as cannon fodder in Tesseret's game.

We get back to the Holleran and have a bit more downtime for Deni to copy scrolls and things. We'll start looking for a floating disc scroll in the morning.

### Gnog's introspection

On this strange quest, Gnog has been in his head a lot of the time. The emotional rollercoaster of it all. It all makes more sense after meeting Nissa. But more than that, he's been in his head for better reasons. Gnog has had such *dreams* - such dreams of scope and depth and beauty, of terror, of the universe, of *all*. He feels changed and he welcomes it. He has dreamt of the destruction of Ravnia, of their last stand together as the megafauna crash through the ground, emerging into District 10, death and destruction all around; dreamt of an escape to Ravnica Station, only to find it, too, being torn asunder by the forces exerted from the planetary destruction below; he has dreamt of flying across and between planes, over the astral sea and incredible speeds, star systems passing in streaks of light (somewhat akin to the monolith sequence towards the end of 2001: A Space Odyssey); he has dreamt of gods rising and falling, swallowing worlds, or exploding apart to birth new systems of planets; dreamt of Niv Mizzet, flying above plains and cities, or appearing above all of Ravnica, dwarfing the planet, wings outstretched and blocking the sun beyond; dreamt of the rebellion and the Giff in battle in deep space of some unknown system, Star Moth beams flicking and glaring, Giff cannons firing, ballistae and mangonel retaliations, captains directing their ships to ram, ships colliding side-on for boarding; he has dreamt of Fee-Ree and Arxcis meeting and embracing, forever; these things and more. They might be visions of a future, a past time, mere imagination; he knows not. He knows only that his consciousness, his awareness, his thoughts and his being feel expanded, more complex, harder to understand, but ever more... Elevated.

"Don't you see?", he things to himself, as if talking out loud. Testing the words, in his head. "Our power. Our fortune, our privilege to be where we are. Our courage and values helped, but so did luck and so did countless people who have allied themselves with our causes. So we have... Become. Become these strange, powerful beings. Few can match us now. We are rare. Fee-Ree exceeds Rath Modar at his peak. There are, as ever, more powerful beings, but they become fewer in number with every passing day. Are we ascending? Is this the path to godhood? What should we do with this power and the responsibility it places upon is? Do we seek to involve ourselves and defend those who need help, until such a time as age diminishes capability? Is it our place to thus interfere? Or do we seek to diminish sooner, to retire, to fade away quietly? It occurs to me that our home world of Toril, after Ravnica, is a paradise. It is dangerous and wild, and always seems under threat from *something* - a cycle of old evils renewed, or new threats emerging. We are not its only defenders. Others rise, tackling perils unknown to us; some becoming lauded heroes, others doubtless going largely unnoticed, heroes nonetheless. Many must struggle and die, as we so nearly have on many occasions; or at best, sacrifice much for their cause. All deserve recognition, if they desire it. All deserve happiness; a future; so what is our future, now? Unite those groups? Defend across worlds? We are now of the Five. We are now The Gatewatch. What this means for us is unclear. Deni, at least, has a whole life ahead of her that should - that *must* - be free of such obligations and constraints, surely? Taz is eternal! He must chart his path; his knowledge and wisdom might become, by mortal standards, infinite. Fee-Ree will have Arxcis, of this I am sure, and is owed a debt of many years that should be paid. As for myself, I do not know; perhaps I will seek my true clan, find my origins, understand what I once was, so I might better understand what I am? And yet, if we do these things, things which I feel we deserve, then those powers of ours, our ability to help, our ability to fight for - for the *light* - to strive and lead - those powers go unused, even squandered perhaps."

After a pause, Gnog says, "and so it must surely be, that we will soon stand at the crossroads of our future. When the time comes, I hope we are prepared."

### That night

We sleep. As we all sleep, we sense uncertainty. We don't know where we're going, that is, we have a path but we don't know where it leads to in the long term.

Tomorrow, of all things, is a worry. This near future. Kaya and Nissa together. Will they get on? We've not seen them interact. We've encountered other powerful beings before but never had to be on their level, or indeed mediating. They were... Untouchable, somehow. Vajra or Laeral or any of them. We were happy to consider them allies but also greater than us, not diminishing ourselves, but just not peers. Now, however, this group we might try to form differs from that.

We have to negotiate with powerful beings on their terms; *our* terms; **equal** terms. No mission. We now set those missions. We are now Vajra and Laeral. No safety net. It's a strange feeling. Lonely, perhaps, except for the excitement of meeting people "like us". How many might exist, per plane? A handful in Toril? Ravnica, maybe more, but with that - its own problems. Which again, brings us to the question - what happens when we stand at the crossroads of our future?

(END OF PART 14 - Part 15 next)
