# Gnog: Part 7

It is Day 20 (Riglan 57), though time shifted about 6 hours forward into that; we are in a boat just about to ascend from Ravnica Station to the planet's surface.

The ship flies low along the surface of the moon at first, then pulls away as it heads directly towards the planet. There are pockets of light on the planet's night side with almost a veil of lights in parts, forming patterns. We're sat opposite each other, in two rows, across the aisles. There's some cloud cover, but we descend below the clouds; patchy light becomes more complete and intricate as we see more details. The area we seem to be going towards only has four significant dark pockets but almost everything else is lit with small lights. Some buildings are brighter than others, but in a manner that looks decorative or like a signal of some sort.

It takes about half an hour to reach the surface. We land slightly away from the lights, in an area where it's able to dip below some old, ruined buildings that seem overgrown, following a small channel between them. It lands. We're in an underground space by now, a cavern; but there is a small platform, only around 20ft x 10ft, next to where the boat lands. It's stone and slightly overgrown with some vines. There are no lights on the platform; the only lights are from within the ship itself. We are helped onto the platform and **told how to organise pickup if we're looking for transfer back up to the station** - we should look for the local Dimar agent. We might be able to teleport ourselves, but it's good to have an alternative. Lift-off is only at fixed times, hanging around only for around 10 minutes after any set-down. Local time is around 12-12:30am (midnight or just after).

We ask how to get to District 10 proper. We're given directions. (The area we're in looks, in modern terms, like an old subway station). Care is needed. We are on the **outskirts of Precinct 4, a division of District 10** (it has 6 such Precincts), on the District's North side. It's an area known as the edge of the "Red Wastes", old buildings where metal has rusted. It can be an unruly place, which helps keep people away and reduces the chances of detection, but means that there may be sculduggery afoot while crossing the area.

The 5 other passengers from the boat, along with ourselves, follow the directions given. We go up some stairs to a corridor that Gnog thinks resemble old Waterdavian sewers, but without any water. It's unmarked but for obvious footfall wear and tear. It's single file. Gnog leads with Taz right behind, throwing up dancing lights above and behind us to make people feel more comfortable. Fee-Ree follows, Deni keeping an eye behind.

The tunnel reaches a fork. On one side, there's someone standing there! They have a hooded cloak and three people, carrying bags, stand behind - they're waiting to board and indicate that we follow the other fork (so we don't have to try and clamber over/past each other in the small tunnel!). After maybe 500ft, the tunnel starts to spiral; it is leading upwards, round and round. It opens up into a small atrium of sorts, with a few blankets, tarps and tent-like structures set up. An old, messy-looking goblin with a tattered hood is there. Gnog can't see much - perception 1 - the lights behind make it hard to make out details. Taz, looking between his legs, perception 15 - notices that the goblin is much more astute and alert than some random homeless person and is smiling at us. It's a ruse. Taz says to Gnog, "I think this is the contact."

As we go over, the other five don't follow - they head to an exit directly. Meanwhile, the female goblin says - "Welcome to Ravnica - the city of dreams, nightmares, despair, poverty, great wealth, enterprise and opportunity!" She can tell it's our first time. She says "Lazatha will look after you" - she hands us a bundle containing folded-up cloth maps of the tenth district. "Here. Take take take! For you! You need!" - Gnog takes them and thanks her. "5 gold!" Gnog gives her 5 gold.

She points at the exit the other 5 went through. "Out this way. Keep to the middle of the road, at least in these parts until you get to the Fourth Precinct and see some guards around. Do not be frightened by loud noises and clashes! It is normal! Keep your wits about you and mind your own business. Stay out of the way of marauders - they will just pass. Don't run afoul of any of the guilds... Weird things are afoot. There's madness in the air. That's why I like to stay out of sight now. But you!" - she looks at Gnog - "You have choice. I can *smell* the destiny on you. Or maybe it's just fish..." Gnog says, "Good chance it might be Kraul as well! Thank you very much, that's really helpful and we'll heed your words." She goes back into a tent and starts with the cackling crazy person schtick.

We head to the exit, walking out of the domed atrium. There are more steps; they lead to a rusted, slightly ajar gate. As we step out there's a loud cackling laugh - a gaggle of goblins are running past with torches, with two centaur galloping behind, faces painted with war paint, holding whips, whirling them around. One goblin shouts, "YOU!" and throws a bottle that explodes in flame against the side of a building; they cackle and laugh, the centaurs rear up, then the group run off further. Someone shouts, "HEY! You're not allowed to do that!" and three plate-clad humans, plus a minotaur in impeccable gold, white and blue armour wielding a large axe, run out in pursuit. "Get here, you guys! You can't break the law!"

"When she said there was madness in the air, I thought she was being alliterative" says Gnog, ruefully... We carry on our way! Strange other noises of odd revelry and general chaos punctuate the night as we walk.

It only takes a few minutes to reach Precinct 4 proper. Suddenly there are shops, lights, people - some drunk! - and carnival music is playing. Taz starts to go that way; Gnog shrugs and the rest of the party follows. Gnog survival 25, figures out from the various distant - and huge! - landmark buildings, where we must be; not least, a huge elevated road to our left, which must be the "Transguild Promenade" on our map. It's about a mile away.

The carnival music is in that direction, but much closer. It's coming from just around the corner, in fact. As we walk, we are surrounded by shops and houses in buildings around 3-4 stories high typically, but surprisingly, one building has collapsed to rubble and beyond is a courtyard with uninhabited buildings beyond, dark and in ruin. The music comes from within. We go through and see various lean-tos and makeshift stands, with a full-on performance happening in the middle. There are fire-dancers and musicians; streamers, bunting and lights dangling from ropes are tied between the buildings; a tiefling rides a unicycle juggling knives and lit torches while cackling. A lizard-like create - not quite Lizardfolk, actually more humanoid yet scary at the same time! - has sabres and seems to be trying to knock the performer off the unicycle, but there seem to be rules; or it's orchestrated for effect; he does eventually score a hit, but the tiefling does a somersault and lands onto a nearby tightrope, where she continues to juggle. A knife is thrown at the lizardfolk person, actually striking and cutting him a little; he bows and everyone claps.

This carry on in this ilk - various performances. One involves an *extremely* hot, very muscular, oiled up guy on a St Andrew's Cross, with two people in masks and butcher's aprons who scrape him with hooks - spells seem to have been cast on the crowd, who seem to find this *pleasurable*. Wisdom saving:

* Gnog 9 - he starts to feel the grip of the euphoria - it's primal; like ranging, but translated as eroticism and passion
* Taz 6! Nat 2 - he's just confused
* Fee-Ree is unaffected and helps Deni
* Deni is thus unaffected too

Fee-Ree asks Gnog if he's OK. Gnog says, "...they don't have THIS in Waterdeep!"

Things get more extreme; they 'torturers' are drawing more blood now, injuring the man with the hooks more. The crowd seem to feel it even more. One digs in hooks which go into his skin and lift him; he cries out in ecstasy / pain; people in the crowd start making out. Things get very x-rated at this point.

Taz says, "I don't understand what's going on..." - but it takes both Fee-Ree and Deni to pull Gnog away, who was starting to move into the crowd.

We get back to the main street and the spell's effect fades. "Oh, that was really weird. I wasn't myself. Taz's mind clears too - and suddenly (history 25) he knows what this was. "We read about that, remember?" - he borrows the book from Fee-Ree. He points at a **phantasmagoria** which is one of many rites and rituals conducted by the guild which represents the extremes of carnal and chaotic pleasure - **Rakdos**. It knows no limits or bounds, so we're not sure what the fate of the guy on the cross will be - even if it looks like he'll be happy, whatever happens!

Gnog says, "well, I'm clearer in my mind now... It's disturbing... But I can't shake what I saw and how I felt, it draws you and calls to you somehow." Gnog pauses. "Am I into guys? I think I might be into *both?* Good grief. Let's find somewhere to sleep. This is all too much."

Deni suggests we don't find somewhere to sleep in this area! We'll keep heading towards the brightest lights and largest buildings. We can see **Nivix** on the map, but the true scale when we approach is hard to comprehend. Even from a mile away, we see that it's a *huge* complex. It has a huge tower, some 800ft tall, which has a strange magical lightning effect happening on top. Or perhaps just weather? Nivix itself rises in tiers, the closest walls on the first tier being maybe 100ft, 50ft beyond, another 100ft for the main columns; and almost a mile long, as best we can tell, with huge arching structures, walkways and sky-bridges. Buttresses even have curving walkways that terminate in *suspended* towers and keeps, with pointed bases, which are somehow held onto the main building - impossible just with stone; perhaps metal, perhaps magic. It's bewildering to look at, both for architecture and scale. We don't even know what it's for!

As if that wasn't enough, about 3/4 a mile away is a huge fortress we can see. It's not as tall as Nivix, but it sits on a wider footprint and seems to have unscalable, huge walls all around. On Toril, it might have counted as some kind of huge, heavily fortified *town* of its own, yet this gives the impression of being a single massive structure.This is **Sunhome**.

Meanwhile, a little behind us now (North) and to the East, along the direction of what we think is the Transguild Promenade, there is smoke and fire, but huge, as if an entire neighbour hood burned; but Gnog's eyes can make out a beautiful domed palace with minarets, but it seems to have had sections of it destroyed and it appears to permanently burn, with a distant sound from some things which are flying around. It's chaos that way. The map says "**Skaarg**" in that direct. This might be those **Gruul** clans, the wild, savage, primal, free people; there was something about that in the book. Violently dismantling and destroying rigid society. That's their home base! A destroyed palace, which represents them well.

This place is *really* weird.

We look for an inn maybe, if such humble things exist here? But the shops are alluring too... Food, alcohol, even sex. Woah. Gambling dens, fight halls and more.

**Nivix** though... **The guildhall of the Izzet League** - a beating heart of the technology and power here. It's hard to imagine an inn near such a place being a dangerous one, so we head that way. As we approach, there's a huge explosion sending chunks of masonry far and wide, a huge crackling ball of lighting illuminating the night sky. Strange creatures fly out; a strange white sphere of light bursts out from the tower; it seems to contain the masonry and creatures and then contract, almost looking like time itself reversed.

"Safer, you were saying?" says Deni.

OK, then, the Boros Legion! We change direction and head towards Sunhome. We walk for about 20 minutes, avoiding various acts of revelry and chaos! Shops change. There are more smithys. Something that looks like a coffee shop - might be nice in the morning. There's a *relative* feeling of peace; armed, armoured patrols are evident, in groups of three. Many have a minotaur in the same very well-dressed, well-presented armour we saw before. We reach a courtyard with a fountain, along with a statue containing a beautiful statue of an angel holding a shield - but part of the shield and some of the carved feathers are damaged. The fountain trickles unenthusiastically. There are a few inns. A side-street full of food stalls is off to one side. The two buildings that most look like inns have a similarity to them, making Gnog wonder why one would choose one or the other; **The Touch Of Her Feet** and **Seraph's Rest**. Gnog says, "I've had enough weird sexy for the day" and heads towards Seraph's Rest!

It seems clean and prim and proper inside. It's homely. There's a certain overdone feeling to angelic iconography, at which Gnog realises that "her feet" probably referred to the angel as there seems to be a bit of a touristy-thing going on; shades of Gifftown. A late 50s human male in a studded leather breastplate, looks like he was probably pretty built when a bit younger, approaches. "Looking for a place to lay your head?" "Yes please, it's been a long one!"

"Would you and your wife like a bed together, or you, your wife and your daughter want separate beds?" - fully aware of Deni's angry eyes burning into the back of his head, Gnog says, "Oh thanks, my wife and I would have one bed but yes, my daughter should have her own, thank you". He asks someone in an adjacent room to 'watch the door' and takes the key and, as he leads us away, we see a similar-aged, tired-looking lady settle into the chair at the desk and do some knitting. Up some stairs - we're given a room facing away from the square so the noise isn't so bad! - he unlocks the door and beckons us in. He shows us around briefly, then heads out - we enquire about price! - apparently, we pay on the way out and we calculate it's the equivalent of 125 coppers (5 of their silvers). As a reminder their currency is:

* 1 zib -> 1 copper
* 1 silver / silver Azorius coin -> 25 coppers
* 1 electrum / electrum Azorius coin -> 50 coppers
* 1 zino -> 100 coppers

The door closes. We pause for a moment until the coast is clear. Gnog apologises for having fun, but it was quickly apparent that this is a strangely conservative place in a sea of revelry and he didn't want to cause trouble. Perhaps a more 'sexy' inn would have been better!

Gnog's pushed into the single bed, his feet hanging over the end. Deni and Fee-Ree share the double bed.

We are finally able to get an overdue long rest. The dreams are predictably bizarre. Gnog dreams about unusually-well-built people on crosses, flying through the astral sea, chased by sharks; then he himself is tied to a cross, hanging in Wildspace, Toril below; Tiamat flies up from the surface, and as she breathes fire all over him but instead of pain he feels pleasure and as in his dream he thinks he's dying, he wakes up. He feels strangely inspired.



# Day 21 (Riglan 58 - 6 hours shifted forward)

When Gnog wakes from his sleep, it's light outside. Taz is already up, staring motionless into the room but eyes alight. He tells Gnog the local time, and Gnog adjusts the chronometer. Gnog's going to get out of bed, then realises his unexpected dream about Tiamat has left him in an embarrassing state and he temporarily stays in bed until he cools down. Gnog notices three sheets of paper next to Taz, who had been spending the morning carefully writing down some notes about his experiences. "We'll get you a proper journal" says Gnog.

Fee-Ree wakes next, Deni last. We pack our things and head down, paying for the room and head out into the courtyard. The map says this area is called the Bulwark. We seem to be on its northern edge. Most buildings seem fortified, with more merchants. Gnog recalls the coffee places he saw but, reluctant to go back North into the madness, we look for something similar in this apparently safer region. We enter an area that almost feels like walking inside a really thick wall, where people have small shops and dwellings set into the masonry on either side. Perhaps, in fact, we are, given the scale of this place. There are adverts for private investigators, places that offer to find things and a few cafes, but very small, with only a handful of table tables outside with stools. One has food too, so we go there.

One guy is making coffee and next to him, his - wife perhaps? - is toiling over a white-hot (!) metal plate onto which oily dough is thrown. It seems to be dipped in egg and cooks pretty much instantly. We order a coffee each and the egg bread thing each. 9 zibs total.

We eat quietly. The food and coffee are actually really good, but the coffee requires care - the cups are very small, but it is very strong, much stronger than anything on Toril, and needs to be sipped slowly. Taz gets a taste as usual.

Once we're finished and we're wandering along, Gnog says, "Well, so, recognisable races on the whole. Strange currency. Strange customs. Strange buildings, but everyone's speaking Common so far. Very strange - this is a different plane, and they don't know about the other worlds, yet there must be a common ancestry somehow here. Impossible to speak the same language otherwise. Even on Toril we have many different tongues."

But suddenly, Taz's attention is drawn to a strange shop with racks of trays covered in cloth napkins, each filled with pastries of a kind topped in different coloured things. "Ringbread" says the sign. 5 zibs each, or 6 for a silver (25 zibs). At Taz's encouragement, we get 12 - which come as two boxes - each one a different flavour chosen at the vendor's discretion. 2 silvers. We try three in one box. They're very good. Taz agrees, as he's getting a taste for this now. "You said you have people at home who like this kind of thing, so I thought we should get two boxes". This astonishes the party - it's very thoughtful - Gnog is 'squee' in Taz's direction. We store them carefully in the Chest Of Preserving. They're very good - Gnog wonders if we would be able to make them at the Goliath Drinks, and briefly chats with the store owner about how they're made. He's more than happy to share and we're even given a demonstration. It looks easy when he does it, but we suspect it would take considerable practice to replicate effectively. He reminds us that creativity in the flavours on top is the key.

A Boros soldier walks past, with a rhino head and full plate. "Morning Citizen" he says. He holds a mug with coffee and has a ring bread. We nod back. "Good morning... ...sir...?"

Eventually we make it to the edge of Sunhome, the fortress proper. The impenetrable, tall walls we had seen turn out to have at their base have many extra buildings, administrative perhaps; barracks or similar? Military, in any case. There are Boros Legion flags all over the place. Our attention is focused on finding Aurelio at the Boros Legion. The main wall of Sunhome rises about 80ft, we now see, a little higher than our more distantly-made prior estimate.

Gnog perception (via Luck) 24. Atop the wall appear to be more structures, along with somewhat decorated rotunda, quite beautiful really; people in armour are walking there. Then, amazingly, **he sees an angel up there**! Or a creature that looks like one. It holds a big, sheathed sword; gleaming, golden plate mail; a golden, Roman Centurion-style skirt but made of metal; a crested helmet (punk hair / shark fin style). It seems the decorations in our inn are rather less imaginative and rather more factual than we expected! Watching for a while, he sees a group of eight marching, in two abreast rows of 4, along a grand plaza walkway heaving emerged from 50ft tall gates that he assumes form the main entrance. It also looks like the walls are very thick, more like buildings in their own right; at least as wide at the base as they are tall (80-100ft), but tapering upwards.

Gnog insight; 18+2 -> 20. Is it wise to ask for Aurelio by name, or would it arouse suspicion and finding some kind of personnel directory might be better? Aurelio was, we were told, a low-ranking enforcer so we can make out to be acquaintances from "out of town". Looking at the map, which on the back has a general precinct layout map, we see about 40 precincts making up the capital of Ravnica. Beyond, places have names rather than numbers, so perhaps we'll just stick with "out of town"!

We "stroll casually" towards the big main gate. It is about 100ft wide, with two doors forming the gate, one each side, wooden and roughly square. It's set within the thick wall, about half way through. They are open, swung inwards. We see guard posts fixed to the doors, mounted on wheels so they move with those doors. Each of these has a guard inside. They watch us walk in but don't say anything, so in we go. Inside is a massive plaza. In the middle is a 25ft high statue of, inevitably, an angel. It is in a leaping-off-the-ground pose, holding aloft a sword with a shield held at its side; the sword is carved in a beautiful clear crystal with red shards coming off that are fashioned to look like fire. It's a city within a city - the walls on the inside aren't tapered, so we figure it might be at least 50-60ft wide or more at the top, explaining all the buildings and activity. There are various walkways inset for access.

It all looks like a heavily fortified place; a keep; yet with an architectural symmetry and care that conveys beauty. It's hard to be too sure if it is truly fortified or merely decorative but the sheer scale of it does suggest both. It's a castle, rather than a palace.

On either side of the square are 8ft high, 10ft wide maps of a sort are set on the far wall, facing us. Reminiscent of a university, notes Deni. We walk across the square to investigate. The two maps are identical! It's all about symmetry again. Deni takes one look at the map and figures out where to go. She leads us off to the left. It's interesting to observe people. They aren't elegant; they aren't military in a subdued way. They almost look ready to burst at the righteous nature of their positions! It's law and order by force.

We move out of the way of another couple of the 8-person (2x4) patrols; they tend to walk down the left side of the paths. We get to three steps leading up to a long building with many columns in the front and lots of identical doors, but they're numbered; the map told us which one. They're not small - 10ft high, double doors. We push inside.

The floor is stone; not marble, or wood. A person behind the desk starts, then asks if they can help, then corrects themselves. "State your business!" "Hello, I'm Gnog" etc. etc. "...we're in town for a while and wanted to catch up with our old friend Aurelio but we're not sure where to find him." He says he'll be right back; we are invited to take a seat on a stone bench. Deni explains - this is "Rosters & Records". The right place!

The desk guy comes back. He checks a pocket watch. "He should be at the garrison..." - he pulls out more sheets to check which one - "...the Beasthaven garrison, Precinct 3." We thank him for his help. We're told on enquiry that his shift will continue for another 4.5 hours.

We depart and head back the way we came, heading towards the main entrance looking at the map, when we realise that the Transguild Promenade cuts right through, North-South (or left-right, since we came in from a West wall exit). It looks a bit fiddly, but if we head South on that, we would get to an elevated junction slightly into Precinct One which runs along a high wall East-West roughly, which takes us East into Precinct Three not far from Beasthaven.

So, we make our way over and get up onto the elevated promenade. The area cutting through Sunhome is narrower than we can see in more distant sections but is still 15ft wide. There are patrols up here. There are even caravans going along here. We realise that the angels were patrolling either side of the promenade. We make our way South.

There's more traffic on here than we've ever seen in Waterdeep; it's very busy; a very, very long, wide road of sorts - widening significantly once out of the Sunhome stretch, buildings on either side. It gets quite decorative, with arching stonework curving upwards and inwards, often decorated with banners or streamers. Caravans are easily able to move in either direction past each other.

Eventually we seem to reach the junction we were hoping for - a more platform-like area with branching exits that ramp down to city walls, where there's a gatehouse / keep-like guard emplacement of sorts. We walk past this, but the guards are checking people going into the promenade, rather than people coming off. This city wall is somewhat lower, only about 20ft off the ground and around 10ft wide.

Gnog, perception only 9! It's very busy, it's crowded, everything is very up-and-down-and-3D. He does at least notice a massive forest up ahead. We get closer; perception 18. Is it some kind of giant tree?! It is, indeed; what seemed to be distant trunks of tall, clustered trees are actually heavy trunk-like branches sprouting up from what seems to be a single centre; one huge tree. Taz points to the map - it's actually drawn; "Vitu-Ghazi". The crown rises up taller than towers; but the scale is so hard to gauge that he can't figure out its size.

Perception 22 for Gnog, looking for a militaristic building of similar design to Sunhome. He spots something, but it's weird-looking; there is a short, squat, watchtower that's very wide, jetting out of the side of the wall we're already on. It's given away by the big banners with the Boros Legion fist flag! So, we just keep on the wall and head there. Getting closer, we see it is a sort of squat funnel shape, wider at the top, rising above the wall with a parade ground or similar above. Walkways off the wall enter into its side. We enter through a first set of doors and see movement behind arrow slits; a second set of doors is opened for us by a guard standing by them. Behind, is another small chamber with another door, but this has a desk with someone sat, who asks why we're here - we explain. We're looking for Aurelio, but don't want to interrupt his duties.

The person at the desk asks a colleague if Aurelio is on his rounds - he finished them in the first half of his shift; he's recently returned (we learn - 8 hour shifts; he had 4.5 hours left, but it took at least 30 minutes to walk over here). He may be in the mess hall. We're asked who we are to Aurelio... Taz pipes up, chattering away remembering all kinds of information we'd been told, persuasion 19+11! It's persuasion as we've said we're acquaintances and, after a fashion, we are. We're told where the mess hall is and left to our own devices.

We see groups getting ready to leave, mustering in the hall; groups of 4, not 8. Barracks seem to be on either side. We go through a door we were told about; there is a mess hall, with many tables - and three people. It's a sinking feeling as we don't know who Aurelio is. Taz shouts, "Aurelio! Hi! It's us!"

All three heads turn. Taz insight dirty 20. He notices that two of them turned because they heard just a shout. One turned with a quizzical look - "why is my name being called?" and Taz heads over.

It's a 6'1" good-looking man in late 30s, maybe early 40s, wearing full plate with a red and white cape. The plate has decorative painting in white, with silver trim. Very impressive. He's not wearing a helmet - it's on the table next to him. He has a plate of food. He looks at Taz and says, "Hi... What are you doing here?" and as Gnog approaches Gnog adds, "Well, we were with our mutual friends out of town, you know how it is, quite a distance, and they knew we were heading this way and reminded us to look you up - old times sake!" Taz says "But you should finish your food first. Food is good!"

"Nah, it's fine. It's no trouble..." - he takes the plate to a nearby kitchen, tips the food out somewhere, gives the plate a quick clean and puts it away; then returns. "Let's go up top for a chat!" "No problem!" - we follow. It's empty up there, fortunately. Aurelio checks around; it's clear. What can he do for us? We're not sure - we know he's the 'eyes and ears' on the ground.

"Something just happened, this morning!" he answers. He can't talk here but we might be able to help him with something. OK - where and when? He finishes his shift in around 3.5 hours. He asks us to meet in 4 hours at - ...and he pulls out a card from his pocket, hexagon shaped, able to be read apparently along any side. In the middle is the name, "**The Gleeful Eye**". A tavern? "I guess you could call it a tavern!" It's in a rather dangerous part of the **Fourth District, just North of Sunhome** but on the Eastern side of the Transguild Promenade. We'll have to do our best to find it. We note down an address which Deni and Taz are confident about. "Ask for the **Simic Performer's Room**". In the mean time, we're advised to keep our eyes and ears open. "Something" went down this morning here, in the heart of the Selesnya Conclave (the guild running this district) - struck by tragedy, but it's being covered up and wants to know why. "Even though we are the local Legion office here, no action has been taken."

Gnog says, "Best not say more then - we'll see you in four hours."

We head down with him, bid a faux cheery farewell and head out. We figure we have time to at least get a closer look at the huge tree. We walk along the wall in that direction. Around us, are generally more plants and trees. Beast Haven seems to be a compacted series of small pastures and paddocks, farms perhaps, but the farm buildings are very frequent compared to the sort of widely-spaced farms of Toril. There are many animals - the region is literally named. Trees eventually start to rise up more to, or above, the wall. Many buildings seem to be almost overrun by ivy, bushes or even small trees growing in or upon them, but they're not abandoned. It just seems to be how they want things to be here. Some stone buildings have crumbled and it seems that this is OK; they're left that way, allowing nature to reclaim things.

Ahead looks more like a small forest; small buildings are nestled amongst them, but dwarfed by the trees. It gets darker as we start to walk under the overhanging branches of the huge tree. We can start to guess size - several hundred feet. The lowest branches seem to be 80-100ft above ground level, at least. Sunhome's walls could just about fit underneath.

Built, spiralling into it, is architecture Gnog finds familiar; it looks elven. Carved, or grown into the tree, but on a grand scale, much bigger than anything he's seen. It's very decorative and ornate, very lush. Once we're close, amongst all the trees, Gnog asks if people mind him doing a ritual - that's OK - so off to one side, he sets up for Commune With Nature.

Veins of energy suddenly become visible, spreading out around him. There are very thin routes all over the stone walkway and Gnog feels his energy and sight touching this, a mile all around, to the extents of this precinct; the area is abundant with life. Tens of thousands of beings / entities...

* There are plenty of people, also elves; fey creatures of all kinds. Races he doesn't know. Loxodon, cantaur; wild half-beast, half-people abound.

* All of this touches massive trees. The word in his mind is "Vernadi". Those are the trees. Dozens, connected by the root system, very, very old. Then there is the sense of Vitu-Ghazi, with roots digging down through many layers below the visible city; here is an elemental presence. The tree was here before the city. It is tens of thousands of years old. It is kept alive by something more primal than just nature. It's not undead but there is elemental and fey magic here - primal creation magic - feeding the tree and keeping it alive. That said, there's a presence of undead, lingering around; as if something undead has been here, but no longer is. There's a deep and strong sense of undeath far below the ground. Tens of thousands at least.

* Influence from other planes of existence? Perception 21.

At the third question, Gnog senses the weakest, slightest pull, something _not quite_ right, almost imperceptible; a barest hint of some influence. That's as much as he can sense. It's like a wisp, a tendril, touching the area we are in, but it comes from elsewhere, extraplanar. Is it just here, or an extension of something wider? Gnog does not know.

It's so weak yet present, happening *now* that it must surely be related somehow to the strange goings on. It's as if tendrils were laid down a long, long time ago, woven now into the fabric of the area around us, unnoticeable to most unless you look for it. There, alive, but waiting? Inactive? Except the tendril he felt seemed like a pulse of life just recently went through it, as if recently used. An afterglow of sorts. But for that, it might not have been detectable.

As he exits the reverie, he explains briefly the variety of races, the age of the trees and the surprising number of undead; but most of all he goes into as much detail as he can about the extraplanar feeling. In conversation with Fee-Ree, we're confident it's not some kind of magical trace from e.g. a teleport spell of the Druidic kind, going via a tree; Gnog's spell doesn't tell him that kind of thing.

Turning our attention to the world around again, we notice how heavily populated the area is. There's a sound of singing; elves perhaps? We head towards it. There's an open area between some of the "smaller" trees, the Vernadi - on Toril any one of these would be a legendary, grand tree in its own right! - a grassy clearing, with 40-something individuals singing in unison in chorus. It has a religious tone. There are quite a few animals around too. Up in a tree, Gnog spots a rather sophisticated nest - more of a rookerie - with two griffons. As we walk in deeper, we see lighting from fireflies and other biological sources. There's really no sun reaching here; the strange twilight is probably perpetual. There are, in fact, pockets of singing all around, floating from various places. What look like faeries are flying around too - not insects close by, faeries further away.

A wooden ramp curves downwards onto ground level and we go down that way. As we go down, a unicorn walks across the path, as if it belongs there. Nobody else seems surprised.

Gnog stops and turns to his party and says, "Is this place actually for real? Like, have all the boundaries just dissolved here or what?!" Fee-Ree says it feels a bit like the fey-wild, but that wouldn't contain things like ruined foundations of crumbled buildings reclaimed by nature.

At the base of Vitu-Ghazi, there is an elegant spiralling city. Thick buttress roots rise at least 20ft above the ground, so there's plenty to build on. It's Lothlorion, sort of! Three Loxodon are spotted, trumpeting; well, singing. "Do you think they have coffee?" asks Gnog. Deni realises she hasn't seen a shop. Not really a commercial centre! Gnog and Taz look around - Gnog adv. perception -> 21. There are many people here; elves in Feyrun don't like high population density. This has plenty - animals, humanoids and plants, all crammed in. Gnog just manages to see a distressed-looking Loxodon, not taking part in anything else. He's sat looking up at a tree, looking concerned and withdrawn.

Gnog walks over and says, "I'm very sorry to bother you, but I thought you looked a little concerned and wondered if there was anything I could do to help?" - but part way through, she turns towards him and he can see she's been crying. She's dressed in something that looks almost clerical. Taz sees this and steps forward, hoping his charm might do the trick - "oh my, it must be something terrible. I'm sorry. Maybe our presence can at least be some sort of comfort." Taz: Persuasion 25. He reaches up and offers her a flower (Gnog thinking - where did he get that from?!).

"Oh", she says, "thank you! That's very kind. What is your name?" "Tazythus. Taz for short!" "**My name is Levinia**. It has been a hard day for me." She sighs. "Oh, you don't want to hear about my pain... This place is a place of happiness" - but it looks like she almost doesn't believe that. Taz says, "We only truly appreciate happiness if we understand how it contrasts with grief." "Well, I suppose that's true. I haven't heard people talk like that in a while. Where you from? You are curious? Are you an Izzet creation?" "Oh, I am construct." "The Izzet are very clever! It's a pity they are so chaotic. I don't know what to do. I feel like... Isn't it weird? Surrounded by all of this, so many people and yet I feel so alone." Taz asks, "Why is that?" "I guess I've always struggled to connect with the Conclave. I've never been able to join the One Voice. I mean I believe in it and everything, I do my part and I'm good at it, but my mentor..." - and she chokes back sobs at that - "...used to say it was just a matter of time and that I would hear it one day, but now I'm not so sure. I - he - I don't understand what's going on." She drifts off, lost in thought, then leans down closer to Taz - "...do you know what's happened?" and Taz says, "someone mentioned some kind of rumour of tragedy, but we know nothing more." "It *is* a tragedy. I don't know why they've taken his body away - I mean that's the way it's done - he's going to be given back to the earth - but I feel like they're not doing anything about it. My voda - do you know what a voda is?" "No" "A voda is like a physical embodiment of a tree, someone who tends the tree and is a shepherd of a tree. My voda - **Durmuid** - the voda of my Vernadi -" and she points to one of the houses in the trees "- he was also my mentor... I went, like I always do after morning songs, after the dawn chorus to bring him some nectar. I do it every morning. This morning I found him sat cross-legged in his little nook in the tree where he always is, and I thought he was just asleep which is unusual as he never sleeps late but I left the nectar for him; and I came back about half an hour later and he'd not touched it and I checked and he was dead! But not just that!" - she leans in even closer, a conspiratorial whisper - "his eyes! His eyes were burned out, like I could see into his skull. The whole thing had been burned, like he'd burned from within and I pointed this out to the High Priest and the other clerics but they told me not to concern myself with it, that they'd look after it, but no-one would tell me what's going on. To me it seems like a crime! I feel like a crime has been committed. But the Boros isn't here investigating. Why did the Izorious Senate not stop it... Why has nobody cared that my voda has been **murdered?!**" - and she is _very_ distressed. She doesn't know what to do. She catches herself and tries to calm down. "I'm so sorry..."

Taz says, "There's nothing to be sorry about. The person we spoke to was keen to understand what happened too, and get to the bottom of it." "Someone outside of this cares?" "Yes. And *we* care. And we don't know what we can do yet." "I must meet them! I must meet them!" "It is a delicate matter because of the large number of people involved and people are a little unsure about how to proceed. We are meeting later and we can't bring you this time..." - but she puts her hand on his hand and suddenly, it's a mouse! Gnog says, "OK, I'm going need a few minutes..." and casts Speak with Animals and says, "Ah, so you are a different shape of Levinia?" "Yes!" "How long does it last?" "Two hours. I can do it again, later!"

We agree that if her two hours are almost up, she can just leave before she changes back - she only gets two changes a day. It's high risk, but she's insisting so we agree.

"In that case, you must come up and have some of my special nut butter!" - we don't have a concept of that kind of innuendo so accept the invitation. She turns back into her normal form and walks off, with us following. We head up a vine-flanked walkway up to the ruins of the 2nd storey of a house, from which more walkways, some made entirely of vines it seems, stretch to a nearby bigger tree. As we walk, Levinia distracts herself with smalltalk. Where are we from and what have we been up to? Well, we're from quite a long way away, quite different from here, did some adventuring and so-on.

We pass at one point a group of elves - *armoured* in green and white scale mail. A verdant canopy tree is symbolised on the breastplates. They seem gathered in what looks like a training area, doing marshal training. Not as regimented as Boros Legion, though. We ask Levinia - she says that she's seen more of this lately, it's increasing. "I don't really agree with it, but I suppose we all need to play our part; this is the - I guess - mobilised part of the Selesnya. We've been training and recruiting and swelling our numbers. We're told we need to be ready; other guilds are beginning to act unpredictably; we must protect what is left of the ancient trees and original forests of this planet. 'We must defend it with tooth and claw!', we are told; but I don't think taking up arms is the right thing to do. If we build an army then *we* start looking like we are the ones doing bad things. It might make the *other* guilds worry... Though the Gruul have been extremely active lately, which has kept the Boros busy. Me? I like to tend my plants and look after the animals."

We reach her Vernadi. It's one of the "small" build-into-/onto-tree towns. "I'm worried for the Vernadi; my Voda, well, he was really the living embodiment of this tree - a tree spirit, like a Dryad, taken form to lead our community. Everyone in the tree was part of his spiritual network. We knew every plant and insect that called this place home. Who will be that now?" and she leads us to a bough closer to the centre trunk of the tree. There's a cute kind of one bedroom hut with a weaved, dyed plant-fibre mandala covering on the floor. There are some large sacks of nuts and a stone grinder, along with some big jars, labelled; she reaches for one and hands it us. "Here! Take one of these!" - she gets chunks of bread, dips them into a jar and it's covered in this strange nut butter. It's thick and rich, but delicious. The nuts have been ground fine, for a smooth consistency. We ask if she's sure that we can take a jar?! "Of course, yes! Please. I'd like you to have one of them" - we thank her. "If you eat a lot of it, though, it'll make you very fat! Spread it out..." - we note the warning. The large jar goes into the bag of holding.

We're invited to join her for some tea, too, which we gratefully accept. It's a tea made from all sorts of flowers, leaves, roots and bark, held in a gauze bag.

During the general chat, we learn that from where we are down to, especially, Precinct Two, is where most of the workers are. Workers cottages are usually available to rent, if we're going to be here for a while, which is a much better option than nightly rates at inns. It's a safe district too.

Gnog sees from the tree, some clouds having cleared away, a huge platform *floating* above the city, over somewhere a short distance South of Sunhome by the looks of it. Gnog can only see the bottom of it. Huge chains appear to run from its edges, maybe 8 of them, stretching down to parts of the city. It's a roughly circular platform on average but very irregular in shape overall.

We do learn from Levinia, who spends most of her time within the Conclave, that the whole thing is *almost* a religion. A naturalist *cause* of sorts, attended to with a degree of fervour and zeal. Vitu Ghazi dates back longer than the Guild Pact, apparently, so if we true we know for sure that it's certainly older than ~10,000 years. The tree is said to contain the essence of Mat'Selesnya, who they believe to be a piece / facet / expression of the World Soul; the living soul of the natural planet. This Guild's founder - the signer of the pact for this guild - was Mat'Selesnya himself, who they consider to be a physical manifestation of that soul. Selesnya therefore considers themselves to be gardeners, providers of food, tamers and tenders of beasts; those who push for and try to maintain a balance of natural life within the world.

Apparently, Mat'Selesnya merged with the Trostani - 3 of the oldest Dryads that the Selesnya Conclave knows - those three dryads fused into one and fused with the soul within Mat'Selesnya, who ceased to have corporal form, to create Vitu-Ghazi. They cannot leave the tree as they are merged with it to keep it alive. They can be found in the heart of the tree - which is literally and physically visitable, it's a great hall inside a hollow - and we learn that the "story" we're told is only a story because nobody left alive anymore saw it first hand, but otherwise it's all considered true. Levinia thinks that the "connection" she mentioned is a kind of hive mind that she thinks the Selesnya Conclave members share; a shared feeling; like the shared root networks of plants. She has her doubts though because she's never been able to feel that. She has her doubts about being a real Selesnyan. Her Voda used to try and talk philosophically with her to try and ease her mind.

We eventually agree to meet her at the tavern in a couple of hours. She'll be hidden in mouse form but will wear something so we can tell it's her!

We bid farewell and head out. Once we're out of earshot, Gnog asks Taz if he knows what the platform is - he hadn't wanted to ask Levinia in case it shouted "off-worlder" to not know. As we watch, a dirigible flies, a little propeller on the back, towards it while another one comes back in a different direction. As we get used to looking for them and with clouds clearing further, we see more of them. We make a note to ask if Aurelio if time permits, since he already knows we're not from here.

South, Gnog sees various stone walkways to more ordered structures, concentric curving paths on a grand scale, with various plazas even further down. Everywhere around us seems busy, but the plazas lower down - "Concordance", says the map, or "The old city" said Levinia - is our goal. Many buildings here are covered in moss and so-on. Above us soars the elevated walkways of the Great Concourse. There are food shops, markets - big ones, bulk food; trade markets - and lots of animals. There are even places to stay set up, but that's about it; these necessities of life are played on repeat almost, which if you've a city this size to feed, certainly makes sense.

There's someone who looks a bit like a ranger, though in Selesnyan colours, taking two huge dire wolves out for a stroll, as if walking the dog. Walking by, Gnog (Animal Handling only 6+7 -> 13) seems to spook a group of animals. There's a bit of a stampede. There are 20-odd elk-like creatures. The dire wolves move to flank and protect their ranger immediately. The animals are running quickly towards us. Taz starts singing a calming song to inspire Gnog into trying to calm the oncoming beasts. Gnog, animal handling with luck point (sigh) 11+7 -> 18, plus 3 from the 2d6 1, 3 rolled from inspiration. Deni leaps out of the way, scooping up Taz as she goes - "Don't just stand there!" - and Fee-Ree casts a spell, but of all times for it to happen, there's a wild magic surge. Gnog out of the corner of her eye sees her eyes widen and her struggle to contain a strange bubble that forms all around her, filling with butterflies; but at the last minute, the butterflies vanish and the bubble instead lifts her up about 20ft, as a large hand, reminiscent of Bigby's Hand, appears to try and hold some of them back. Gnog has to be athletic (rages as they get really close, athl check 27) and having via animal handling identified a lead creature, jumps onto it to reign it back. He grips it with his legs and grabs two others, one in each hand by horns. The stampede kind of collides with itself as the front slows down and, eventually, it halts.

It's not just deer. Some buffalo had ended up swept into it and even a hippo!

One of the ranger-like people run up, thanking us. They don't understand what spooked the animals - the corrales are open and shouldn't need to be closed; we hear shocked whispers, "that's the second time this week, what's going on with the animals?" - all that. More examples of chaos.

Right. Onward. *Somewhere.* *Quiet.* Gnog moves on. At ground level is a garden, looks like the back garden of a few of the houses - a communal space once, perhaps; there is dried-up well and just a few animals in it. No people. He heads in and finds a patch of grass and plonks himself down.

"Sorry, it's all a bit much. I think - I think seeing that floating platform kind of sent me over the edge a bit. It's just overwhelming; we're in a tiny corner of planet-wide city. We're maybe trying to help find out why a species has taken it upon themselves to destroy other planets. And now somehow we're embroiled in the clearly significant issue going on here, even though we understand nothing about. Everything is huge, and loud, and busy, and complicated, and my head hurts and I need a minute. Is it just me?!"

Gnog realises Fee-Ree is still floating. "You can come down now", says Gnog, "are you OK? I thought I saw a surge out of the corner of my eye." Fee-Ree says she hopes the spell will wear off soon... Gnog turns to Taz, "what are *you* making of all this? You're kind of brand new." Taz admits that it's all the same kind of level of new and confusing all the time anyway.

Deni is spooked. "Something is wrong" she says and Gnog agrees - that's perhaps the root of it, maybe the floating platform was a jarring thing but there's been a growing unease. "I can't figure it out though. I've been in my head for most of the day, trying to figure it out. There aren't enough clues." We talk about it more. **It's like the Draakhorn perhaps**. The whole population may be on the edge of stampede... Meanwhile, Taz perception 17, notices between the buildings that people are moving around and there are confused shouts. A throng of people start to move. Taz points it out - "...we should see what that's about".

We go out through the gap. There's a crowd. Selesnyans and general folk. We walk up a platform. At the top, the Selesnyan soldiers we saw earlier are putting up huge banners. We see other groups elsewhere across the area. People seem shocked; "...but I'm on a pilgrimage!" one says. The banners read; "**Vitu-Ghazi closed until further notice**". People start being ushered away from the distant, huge tree, onto the concourse. People aren't even sure it *can* be closed.

"This does not help my mood" says Gnog. "I doubt yours either," he says to Deni.

We need to retreat. Things are getting a bit crazy. We have trouble getting through people. It's crowded and might turn ugly; confused, incredulous, distressed people, against a wall of Selesnyan soldiers towards the tree. We overhear it's about a "day of mourning" but that smells like a cover story. We try to get the way we know, back to the wall that leads to the Promenade. We make it over to the Boros garrison; it's mobilised, so they've noticed. We even worry that Aurelio may not be able to make the meeting.

We kill time amongst the cafes and alleyways while progressing, slowly, back to Precinct Four. At one point we pass a small group of people gathered in an alcove of sorts between buildings. This isn't a ruined area but is a quiet area of the precinct. Some people here look injured; one is covered in blood, but clearly a healer. Taz is heading that way before Gnog can say anything; we follow. "Taz! Where are you going?" says Deni; Taz says, "people are hurt".

There are about 11 people who look hurt. They seem like they might live on the street or be 'between jobs', the unaccounted-for. The healer is a mid-late-50s-ish human, doing the best he can, healing old-school. Taz tries to find some people who need magical assistance, with Gnog helping. Two people stand out. They need help straight away. He tries L1 Healing Word on both, rolling maximum twice - 4+5, 4+5. Between us all, within about 20 minutes using healing kits and potions and so-on, we manage to help a fair bit. Those with disease will have to find a way to fight it, but our healing helps their strength.

The healer thanks us, but is confused. "This is very strange. I can't figure out who you're with? There isn't a guild I know who would do that. So who *are* you?"

Gnog waffles a bit about difficult times in the city and helping out. The healer responds to say "well, I'm not sure if I've seen that; the city always seems like this; but I'm not like many. I am Guildless." Gnog says that he supposes we are technically too, but didn't like to say so - you never know how people will respond. "There are a handful of us, though..." says the healer "...well, perhaps as much as 1/5th of the population, who refuse to acknowledge the primacy of any of the guilds. We exist outside it and see how the system doesn't necessarily work anymore. It was a beautiful piece of philosophy. A great social experiment which no doubt has allowed Ravnica to prosper. But it doesn't work for everyone." Gnog says, "We've never been good at turning a blind eye. And I don't think of myself as a politician, so not really able perhaps to judge the efficacy of the guilds. But I do know this - ten thousand years is an awfully long time to stick with the same system in a world which has not itself remained the same over that time."

His name is **Elias** - a wandering healer. He tells us an old story, told to him by his father. It's called the **story of the Decamillennial**; the creation of the living guild pact, how the guilds nearly fell apart and the authority put into something that *could* adapt and change, a living mind - but all of that power and authority being put into one person led to fear of the possibility of creation of a tyrant. Instead, the person just seemed to be absent! Nobody really expected that. The Decamillennial creation was about 70 years ago and this individual has been rarely seen since; and not for the last 3.5 years. Gnogs posits that perhaps his absence is causing instability, but Elias thinks things have been more unstable for at least 5 years, if not 10.

"Walk with me, perhaps? Or I could walk with you?" - we tell him our unusual destination. As we walk, given his reaction to our destination, we ask more about just what it is. "Let's just say it's one of the - well - kind of a den of iniquity. But these things are commonplace!" Gnog says, "ah, yes, I think our friend has some exciting tastes but is a genuinely good person for all the quirks."

We reach a point where Elias is to leave us. He points to a nearby ramshackle place without a front door. "It's been a pleasure to meet you and I think somehow I might see you again." To Taz - "**You are a small being with a large heart**" Taz thanks him, and hopes he can work with Elias again some time soon.

We carry on to the 'tavern'; nearby, Deni spots a mouse wearing a red bow! Gnog says hello, puts out his hand so it can crawl on, and Levinia Mouse hides in the fur he wears.

The building is grimy, stone, chipped blocks of granite, small blood splatters in a few places! The painted wooden sign says, "The Gleeful Eye". We go inside - VERY loud music - a kind of heavily rhythmic thing, loud drums, unclear who's playing - it's quite dark too. Clumps of stacked up candles, forming a bit of melted mess with multiple wicks burning, are scattered around. People canoodle on sofas and banquettes - in alcoves or out in full view. A waitress spots us, flicker her tail (!) and asks what we're after. Gnog leans in, conspiratorial whisper, "The Simic Performer's Room please!"

She says Gnog, Taz and Fee-Ree are OK, but Deni's too young. Taz distracts her by saying Deni's older than she looks and casts a Minor Illusion of wrinkles so that when the waitress looks back she sees an older Deni (and fails the DC16 investigation check to see through the illusion) so is convinced. We're pointed in the direction.

We go past the bar. There's a long spiel from a barman trying to sell overpriced drinks... But hey, it's OK, we pay 2gp and four drinks that fade from yellow through orange to red at the bottom. All four are set alight as they're pushed towards us. Taz holds it at arms length! We go through the curtains we were pointed towards, followed by spiral steps leading down a floor; first door on left; we're sat in a room with really nice booth seats. In the middle is cylindrical glass tank. Inside is a beautiful, blue-green, translucent, but reflective-skinned, looking almost elven; a hint of scales on the skin, frills off the side of her head, like fins, clear, blueish, jellyfish-like hair floats above, long thin webbed fingers, very curvaceous - naked! - along with a gently sweeping tail, with more fins. She's dancing in the water. Soft choral music is playing here. There's nobody else in the room except one person sat at one booth. It's Aurelio.

We head over and put our burning drinks on the table. He has a burning drink too. "Hi", says Gnog, "we saw some shit after you and I met, and met someone interesting" - he asks if we'd stuck around in the Third Precinct and yeah, he'd heard about it. He's not too surprised but thinks it's a bad move and would just send panic. Gnog says he'll rattle off what we know now, and then maybe Aurelio can join dots and say what he thinks:

* The manner of the death, burned out eyes, we know a witness and Aurelio can speak to her if he wishes via Gnog as translator
* The spooked animals is an increasing problem
* The magical thread line - interplanar - didn't originate on Ravnica - don't know if it's someone here that is escaping off-world, or someone off-world that's a corrupting influence

Aurelio points out that the Living Guild Pact entity was from off-world. He only *heard* what happened at the Vernadi but... Well, he has a copy of a key (cough) to the garrison captain's office. He sneaks in to make sure he's not being messed up for promotion or whatever - just internal politics and also to make sure that he's not been rumbled as working with off-worlders - and recently when in there he heard the Captain coming, so he had to hide. The Captain was with one of the Selesnya, explaining that something had happened, describing it; seemed like a murder; Vodas are very high up of course; the Selesnya were going to "take care of it" and urged the Captain to stay out of things. It was a 'courtesy call' to let him know that some upheaval might occur. The Boros were encouraged to focus on the Gruul.

He talks of other strange things. He'd like us to help. A file destroyed; three other events were on it. Incidents that sounded similar.

We agree. We don't necessarily want to be involved, but we're here - we are. It wouldn't sit well to abandon it and we need to get to the Izzet anyway. We finish our drinks. Aurelio gives a coin to the dancer. Gnog gives her one Zino for each of us. Deni gives her one more - "women like us shouldn't have to dance for money!" - but Gnog says, "willing or not, you're very beautiful and it is a crime that not more come to see it."

It's about 6pm. The sun is approaching the golden hour. There's warmth left. It's starting to get lively. Gnog turns to Levinia Mouse and asks if she wants to come. She scuttles down and turns into herself. She's excited - luckily - not aghast. Wants to talk, but we need to find somewhere to stay first! Aurelio leads us along one of the alleys near the Sunhome main walls, with the various cafes. He knocks on a door. A Were-Rat opens the door! Well-dressed though... Aurelio addresses him as **Matt (short for Matteo)**.

We are shown a room while Matt asks if we're OK with a week-to-week arrangement. We're on the 3rd storey. He opens the door into a small apartment. There is a main sitting area with a kitchen alcove. A small wet bathroom and one bedroom are also present. "This one even has a window!" he says, and shows us. It opens. One week - 4 zinos. He reminds us that this isn't an inn! We get the room - we clean it, we cook, all that. We're happy with that. We thank him.

He heads out, then Deni realises we got no key; well, the door has no lock. Aurelio demonstrates jamming a chair under the door handle. Well, that works! We can at least have Taz as a passive perception burglar alarm. Aurelio reckons nobody tries anything while rooms are occupied anyway - just don't leave our stuff around when we're out.

Levinia is tinkering around in the kitchen, figures out how the arrangement of a small wood fire and stones above work for heating and makes tea. When Gnog rather bashfully comments that she seems to be taking it all rather well, she reminds us about the 12,000 year old tree with the soul of a planet in the form of combined ancient dryads, amongst things, and says that it's really no surprise to hear of other worlds or races - she's certainly taking all that in her stride. Finally, over tea, her and Aurelio are able to catch up properly.

**Levinia agrees to be "eyes and ears" in that area**, since it's closed to the rest of us. She can send a bird to Gnog which Gnog can understand, to relay messages. **Aurelio tells us that he'll leave flyers for shows, plastered to the stairwell in our building**. It'll look innocent enough, but Deni will be able to tell which ones are new and we will be at that location at 5pm. If we see no new poster in a day, we assume no meeting and never take chances.

Aurelio believes that the various deaths of late are linked and he's sure they are murders. Levinia has certainly stoked that fire given her observations and statement of same. Of us, he says we either stay hidden and keep out of the eye of the authorities, or **make ourselves known and registered with the Azorious Senate**. We favour being above board but will need a good reason to be staying around, not least:

* Delivering a letter (so we should keep it until registered)
* Being from Toril and adventurous and curious, especially in matters of nature
* Researching a curious event in our own plane which led us to the astral sea and, via the Rock of Bral, to the Izzet league as the universe's foremost authority on such matters - there's simply better place to be

He notes that if we're looking for information, Precinct Five is where the universities and scholars are. That may be enough.

Just before he leaves, we remember to ask about the big floating platform. It's the Millennium Platform, put up just before the Decamillennial celebration. It has beautiful gardens, fairytale palaces and the grandest, finest restaurant in the City Of Ravnica. It is held aloft by magic and anchored by giant chains. Every registered citizen of the city is given one token every year to dine at the restaurant... Unfortunately, people do sometimes sell their tokens because it's such a prestigious thing - they often can't afford the airship fair to get up there. The free meal doesn't come with a free airship ride.

Notwithstanding free food, we resolve to visit Precinct Two in the morning to register forthwith, in our finest clothes with weapons hidden. We bid farewell to Aurelio, who will escort Levinia back - but she rested while we had tea, turns into a bird and flies off!

We're left in the fourth district, we've had a bit to drink, but no food and maybe we try to brave the madness again.

We head down. Nobody in this building is too friendly - a bit shifty - people mind their own business. They're like us; they've something to hide, but mean no harm. Privacy.

Once in the alley, we exit the walled bulwark area onto the wider streets. Nivix is easy to see and we figure we might head back that way. Deni follows her nose and finds a food street, a couple of alleys over from ours. It's like laneways of Melbourne dropped into the close jumble of buildings one might see in Marrakesh. We choose a stall at random almost and get an assortment; wraps, vegetables, soft slow-cooked lamb, balls of dough and bread. To our surprise they quote 8 silvers - *our* silvers - so that's what we pay. It feels almost like barter; they weigh the silvers on scales to check value.

Food done, we head back to the main streets and wonder around. Cobblers, gambling dens, apocathery, a "pain club" (which catches Gnog's eye!) and various brothels. We pass by a small, dark-looking chapel lit only by candle. Now *that* pique's Gnog's interest and he asks Taz if he recognises denomination; yes; Orzhov. Taz admits to curiosity too and Fee-Ree and Deni are interested, so in we go.

There are two *very* well dressed priests at the far end near an altar. There are many pews, well made, from stone and wood. Gnog Perception 13. There are ghosts! They float around doing errands. Hmm, like servants. "Taz... They've got ghosts!" Taz agrees and asks to borrow the book from Fee-Ree. Taz investigation nat 20 (!) + 3 -> 23. The book falls open on the Orzhov page! "Apparently, the Orzhov sell religion, they sell an *afterlife* - it's tied to the banks - the poor, if they borrow money, have to serve in the afterlife until their debts to the church are repaid. The rich can pay the church to be brought back as ghosts, so that if they are murdered or experience another untimely death, it's an insurance policy of sorts. They can complete whatever work they were doing, or track down a murderer."

Before we get a chance to quickly leave, we're spotted. "Is there anything we can do for you? Are you supplicants? Are you looking for security in the afterlife?" - we get the sales pitch. We can even potentially talk to the dead! **Gnog's thinking about the Voda, Durmuid**. Deni asks about cost; it depends on how long ago they crossed. Longer time is harder. Costs more. A violent death tends to add a premium. We can only pay in Orzhov currency; it'd cost 10 of the large platinum coins to start with (10 equivalent Toril platinum).

We make enquiries. They'll exchange money for us but only to their for-the-poor copper alms coins - we give them out to poor people to feel good about ourselves and they have to come to the church with it to get food. No. They show us where a bank is for the main exchange for platinum and we note that a violent death premium is 3x the price. So - we get to the bank; we convert 30 platinum; we come back and we ask them to try.

To start with, they just take the ten. We're led to a courtyard, down a spiral staircase and into a large chamber with a domed ceiling that is a bit dirty, but made of glass. It seems inset between various buildings and rubble and dirt from surrounding disrepair has fallen onto it. Everything within is beautiful - marble floors, tiled walls, lamps. It's about 20ft rising to 30ft high. The priests have brought with them many ghosts. Each ghost, we now see, has a cuff with a dangling chain - a symbol of their entrapment. They carry incense, censers, scrolls and more. Two large comfortable armchairs with cushions are laid out - for the priests of course! - and things are set up. Some kind of ritual commences. They start calling Durmuid's name, over and over. More incense is requested. Ghosts burn more. Smoke starts to fill the dome. Some kind of portal seems to be trying to form in the centre of the smoke.

Gnog perception dirty 13+7 -> 20. Religion for Taz, with Built for Success and a boost from Fee-Ree, reaches 29 on a high roll of 19. He inspires Fee-Ree, who gets 25 Arcana.

They're searching methodically for the spirit. Taz believes this ritual is legitimate. They search around the tree and Precinct Three. There are many spirits. They can't find it. They look concerned. They double-check that the person died today - yes, this morning! - and then confirm with us that we're prepared to pay for the violent death premium. We immediately agree. The ghosts bring some kind of chainmail / metal shielding that they drape over the priests to protect them. Something projects forwards from the priests, visibly, as if they are searching with their minds; a ghost is sent up to the portal too; they look more closely; was there violence? They have to search wider; the ritual is certainly gaining in intensity. They ask different spirits. None have seen the Voda. They ask wider and wider. Nothing.

They try one last thing. Their spirits fly towards district two, which we can see through this strange portal; a grand basilika, a *huge* grand hall with many old, fat, vestment and chain wearing ghosts hovering around thrones; has the spirit passed through here? They yell! "You are not allowed to be here! You are banished from the Ozbedat!" The priests collapse back into their chairs, exhausted.

"No", says one. "It can't be..." - they take the ten platinum and give them back. Force it into our hands. "We will not be a party to this. There is something amiss. Is this person really dead? We even went to the Ozbedat and were banished. We can investigate this no more! You must leave!" and we are ushered away hurriedly. They look *very* concerned and troubled as if they've done something they shouldn't.

Just before we exit Taz turns back and says, "But I don't understand, what does this all *mean?*" (persuasion 28). One priest says, "We don't know what it means. There was no spirit. It isn't there. It can only mean one of three things - first, this person is in fact no dead, for their spirit is not anywhere; second, whatever has happened to their spirit and regarding their death is something well above our authority and only the Ozbedat know and will not discuss; or third, the manner of their death is so rare and of a particular persuasion that the spirit itself was destroyed in the process, which we have only ever heard whispered about - it takes a *very* powerful magic to rend someone's soul apart in the act of death."

We leave. Shit.

Deni says, "Oh my goodness, how do you feel after that? Do you need to go to the pain club?!" and she's joking but Gnog says, "OK, why not, new place, new things, you're young, probably shouldn't be there, but I'm a terrible guardian!"

It's a large stand-alone building which looks strangely like a temple with columns - it is literally called **The Pain Club**. It was probably grand once but is more run-down now. Greko-Roman feel in Earth terms. There's inevitable loud music. On entry, we are greeted by male and female humans, with various different races waiting and attending. We are asked if we're here for entertainment of the observation kind or the participation kind? Deni says "definitely observation!" and Taz says "yes, that!", Fee-Ree is just unsure about being here at all. Gnog says, "I want to explore a strange thing I saw last night. So for me, **participation please**."

Deni's mouth hangs open. Gnog shrugs.

The party splits. Gnog's a little relieved as he's not sure where this is going. Taz, Deni and Fee-Ree are led to seats and asked if they'd like a table or just seats overlooking the "stages and pits". A table. They're led upstairs. The tables have privacy, separate balconies, but all overlook a central pit. It's a sort of booth-orientated spin on the Yawning Portal. On lower floors are just spectator seats, stadium-style. At the pit-level there's standing room. Hanging at either end of the long pit space below are three cages, within which are people chained up or otherwise held (presumably, voluntarily). In the middle are various implements of pain - braziers with brands, whips, knives; it's nothing but full hard-core stuff down there. "I don't think Gnog knows what he's getting into" says Deni.

Gnog's led along the ground floor. Other participants collect together. A tiefling comes by, sizing people up; female, checks Gnog's condition, asks if he'd prefer the performance with male, female, both or - something else. Gnog says "both", unsure what "something else" might be. "How are you with pain? What is your threshold?" Gnog doesn't know how to answer. She puts her hand on the side of his face and Gnog feels 5 points of piercing damage. He goes "ow!" and rages. Insta Goliath-pump. He explains - as best he can now reason while raging! - that he is fine and just wants to explore.

Gnog's given a leather codpiece and harness of sorts; his other clothes and possessions are taken. Gnog's very into the look.

A tall minotaur comes over and leads Gnog with a small group onto part of the stage. A cage is lowered and opened and he's asked to step inside. Ooookay, Gnog holds his rage. Suddenly, Gnog sees Deni & Fee-Ree & Taz across the way and this gives him a sudden moment of almost guilty self-consciousness and he loses that rage. But then he sees below that something has started. The teifling is doing fire juggling, walking on fire, even lighting herself on fire and even cutting herself. She 'draws' burning patterns of blood on herself and dances. It's macabre but also strangely beautiful and very talented.

The minotaur and a half-orc now start doing full-body wrestling. There's a lot of body contact. Pushing, punching, the half-orc gets gored, bites and claws back. People seem really into it. It's like WWF wrestling if it was real, rather than just for show.

Now someone asks for a cage to be lowered. Emerging is a beautiful woman with long black hair tied-back, perhaps elven, wearing full black leather. She's strung up on chains and hung; different people come along, he leather is untied and parts are removed. We see that she has a great many piercings; things are hung off them. It looks like it hurts but she's enjoying it - Gnog recognises the look from the strange performance the previous night. This goes on for a while. She seems to, uuuh, enjoy herself fully.

Two people come on stage. The crowd goes wild. "Tonight we have quite a treat for you; the twins!" - they do an acrobatic dance, one male, one female; the female then sprouts bat-like wings, she flies up, yanks a rope and Gnog's cage crashes down. Adv. dex save 14; he sees it coming and isn't just totally flattened. As he falls his rage returns. Athl check 24; he lands, rolling and actually bursting out of the cage to land on his feet. The crowd like it! Gnog sees the female land and fold her wings. Gnog is led up to a raised platform on stage. The two of them are not tieflings - they're actual devils. This is a surprise. An incubus and a succubus. He's just crazy hot; toned, muscular, swarthy, flawless skin, almost too youthful, handsome, dark hair with black fire two small horns; perfect sharp teeth; eyes aflame with black fire. He has no wings but has a tail. She's equally hot in female form, but with the wings and grand antler-like horns that wrap back around her head like a crown, beautiful golden hair; her skins is a rich brown, glistening and shiny almost. Achingly beautiful and curvaceous. She has a tail too, which she is wrapping around Gnog's leg, playing with him.

Gnog is sat in a chair and he's bound to it, though it feels ceremonial. They pull something and the bottom of the chair falls away; then a hook lifts the chair off the ground, so Gnog now basically tied to a steel frame that was once the chair. More chains are attacked to anchor the structure. Gnog is caressed by both; but they end with claws, digging in. 4 damage, con save nat 20 + 11 but Gnog can feel that there's something on their claws that's trying to enter his bloodstream. It gives him a bit of a glow and a high. It would probably have caused hallucinations; Gnog's keen to understand what this feeling is with a clear head, so he's relieved to resist its effects.

Hot pokers are taken from the fire. They're danced across Gnog's chest, burning in but only 2 damage while raging. Wisdom save 13; just enough to realise that she's trying to influence him too. She sees it didn't quite work. gets her twin to come over. He starts really laying it on, hands all over Gnog, hooked daggers drawn across his back and a brand is suddenly pushed onto his flesh! The piercing is 3, but the fire brand is 18->9. Wisdom saving 14.

Gnog says to them both, quietly, "I don't know what this is, but I can do this with a clear head. I rage, but my mind is somehow clear. You are **both** beautiful. This *needs* to test me, so that I know if this is something I enjoy."

One brandishes a Morningstar on a chain. It's swung and hits. There's a psychic damage aspect this time. Gnog thinks he's getting it. He can see how this could work in the right context. It's always pain followed by a soft touch, or a kiss, or something pleasurable, then pain again. Across that period, Gnog isn't sure what the crowd wants, but he's getting into it more.

Con save 27. He's in control of his endorphins. He never thought of this as a pleasurable possibility. He channels his primal background; thinks to how his ancestors might have found pleasure from battle and translated that; and he lets himself go of his inhibitions a bit and does enjoy the process. Things get more intimate, both of them rubbing up on him erotically and eventually they undo the codpiece. Perception disadv 11, he doesn't notice until the incubus is yanked off him and a cloth is thrown over him. Deni has leapt off from where she was, landed on her feet and said, "That's *quite* enough of that! Show is over!"

The cloth is hanging off 10" of Gnog, the audience go 'awww', but the incubus and succubus take Deni's hands and lead her into a bow. We're led off-stage to applause.

Gnog's asked if he needs medical attention. He explains to the two of them that he can understand much more how range and pain can translate to pleasure, but he was surprised to find that really that was a backdrop to the two of them doing the other erotic stuff that really got him going. And while he can use pain for pleasure if circumstances require, he preferred the other aspects. But he notes he preferred *either* of them and he'd never realised that about himself before. The succubus says, "We had a *lot* of fun with you! We've rarely gone quite that long and quite that far without unfortunate accidents happening, which... 'Cut' things short. You really are a great performer! If you want to go further with no holds barred, no safety, no safe words, you can always come and see us in the Undercity on our own turf, where pain clubs go *really* to the next level! Ta-ta for now!" They head out.

Gnog sees that the elven lady is being bandaged, having had some of the piercings torn. "Thanks Deni. I was perhaps getting carried away. Oh. I still am... Um. Clothes?" He looks fucked up. "You are a mess!" He's fine but does need blood mopping up and Taz casts some carefully targeted healing to stop things bleeding so much, largely healing up the brand too - a lot of it was for show - before he puts his clothes back on. The owners come and check and again, he's fine. **Gnog is handed a token. It's a Rakdos token** (it acts as a one-use charm, for Hellish Rebuke, Crown Of Madness or Shatter). It's a bit of a recruitment drive.

Gnog does wonder if that'd be his calling in another time or place. But what he's learned is that he's now very surprisingly and fully in control of his rage, channelling it, using it, not falling prey to it. He's come a long way.

We get pretty much a night of free drinks. Gnog shows the party the token. Taz identifies it via ritual and Gnog realises it actually has value. It's quite flattering as an outsider to have left that impression. Gnog does his best to explain what that was all about and why he was doing it. Both sexual exploration and testing himself.

He's learned he's fully 50/50 bi, though; at least with devils!

It's getting a bit late. 10pm ish. We head home; the alleyway is quiet. A couple of kids play on a balcony. They're called inside by their parents.

We get inside, put the chair up against the door; Fee-Ree makes a nightcap of tea, then we rest.

(END OF PART 7 - Part 8 next)
