# Gnog: Part 9

It's the second morning in our newly-rented apartment on Ravnica in Precinct Four of District Ten.

# Day 23 (Riglan 60 - 6 hours shifted forward)

We awaken fairly early; pack up as usual to take everything with us; usual morning routine, established very quick as we're so used to that "on the road".

Ringbread & coffee. While they do 6 ringbread for a silver, they also do 3 for a silver with a coffee each - so we do that and let Taz have taste of each. Deni wonders if the poo is still in Sunhome. Gnog brights up. Yes, let's head straight there!

It's very busy at Sunhome. A scaffold covered by a cloth covers a statue in the main courtyard area. People are going in and out of the tarp with carts. Areas around are being cleaned. Bits of lawn have been ripped up and are being replanted. Gnog says, "yep, still got poo in it". Lots of male and female angels around - damn, but they look good, notes Gnog; he knows it's, well, almost an illusion, but the aesthetic is just stupid hot.

"Maybe we should help...?" says Gnog. "It looks like they have plenty of people" retorts Deni. We make our way through to the Transguild Promenade and head north. The carnival is that way, but we're also curious about getting a bit of a look over the Red Wastes and at Skarrg.

Gnog notices that the area around Skarrg has entire city blocks in rubble. It looks war-torn. "Tiamat should've just hired the Gruul... What, too soon?" - and as we head further North, the tail of the Red Wastes is visible. It's not devoid of construction; there are some crumbling towers and the odd building. Whole areas though are scorched, the scorched areas reclaimed by some kind of plant life - a red fungus or moss of some kind. It stretches out as far as we can easily see. We spot the carnival being set up; it looks like some kind of old roundabout or circular town square, surrounded by either mostly or entirely crumbled-to-the-ground buildings. Seems like a dangerous place to set up! There are various tents, including a large "big top". We keep going though - closer to Skarrg.

Skarrg, as we noted before, would've been beautiful once. A multi-dome palace with elegant archways and many decorations. It's much more obvious up-close. The main dome, which might have been metal, has partly caved in now, tiles of what must have been beautiful mosaics are cracked and fallen, once-elegant towers are mostly fallen, with only a couple still fully standing. Gnog's eyes catch large creatures moving around in the rubble; giant sized. Lots of animals too. Machines of war are arrayed outside - including a partially dismantled catapult... Various parts of Skarrg seem to house perpetual bonfires - it seems to burn all the time.

This area of the Promenade is heavily patrolled by angels. Gnog approves. Boros legions of 8 (2x4) march. Caravans here seem to have private security. It's not surprising since the promenade runs right past Skarrg, almost disturbingly close. The promenade continues past rubble beyond District 10 and Taz points out that his information shows it to be a major cross-district trade route. At the closest point to Skarrg, Gnog can clearly see that there really are giants in there; ogres too. He spots a tribe of minotaurs sparring. We see what looks like a raiding party depart - centaurs, goblins, viashino and more in war paint. The centaurs seem to be banging war drums to rile people up. Two goblins push carts loaded with bottles with rags in them; they're headed for the Fourth Precinct. Boros will be busy today. An angel swoops past us hurrying towards Sunhome - must've seen it too.

We reach the 10th exit. Rubble belt on the left, trees starting to take area; on the right, a forest has already done a lot of reclaiming, extending beyond P3. Just before that, in P3 proper, is a smaller raised area, very high up area behind a high wall; an old, fortified city of some kind, with many buildings of its own on top. It looks as if perhaps Skarrg might've been connected with this as part of a wider imperial enclave. Surprisingly, it seems uninhabited. It looks like there's a promenade exit, so we kill time by exploring the old, broken down fortifications and seeing how nature is reclaiming it. Initially it seems fully abandoned, but then we encounter the Gruul here - people popping out from behind rubble and quite well-hidden lean-tos here and there. Hmm... Gnog asks Taz if Taz could help him try and approach someone here. Those that we see seem wary, but least of all to Gnog.

We turn a corner and see a group of half-orcs gathered around a campfire roasting an animal, who mostly ignore us. Gnog approaches, realising that he has a more Gruul-like appearance, and greets them. "Well met stranger. You bringing something to the fire?" Gnog - survival 19+7 - 26. He spots a monitor lizard walking along the top of a nearby wall. Gnog grabs it! Unarmed strike nat 1, luck point, nat 10+10 -> 20. He drags it over. "Huh", they say, opening a space so Gnog can get to the fire. "Bare hands. I like your style." Gnog says, "Thank you" and they help gut the lizard. As we start to cook it, Gnog says, "Bare hands can work, but if I'm fighting, I must admit, I prefer to get -" **and rages!** "- a little angry. Gives me motivation!"

This causes the half-orcs to get excited. One of them rages too! Wants to wrestle. OK! Gnog's in. Taz says, "you can do it!" from a safe distance - bardic inspiration; Gnog athl. with inspiration, 23. The Gruul half-orc also gets 23 - it's all bulging muscles and sweating and grunting. Taz shouts encouragement. Gnog tries harder, roaring for showmanship, getting 31 this time. That does it! The half-orc is beaten. The half-orc acts deferential but Gnog just guffaws and slaps him on the back, "None of that! Good match!" and we are invited to eat with them.

Deni and Fee-Ree join us. Fee-Ree uses some control-flame to boost the fire, which gains some approval too - "You have a shamen? Yes! The power of the old ways!"

As we're eating Gnog talks about wanting to meet the Gruul tribes further north. Adv. persuasion 22. "Ah. You are a seeker!" "Yes, we hear the Gruul have things to say and nobody's listening. We don't know why". We are told to speak to **Borborygmos**, who channels the spirits of the old ways - the druids of the old ways. They tell of signs; everything is converging. We must speak to them. **"The portents of the red lights in the sky - the beams that shine off the planets. Everything is aligning. The RazeBoar will be reborn. He is the spirit of freedom that has been chained under this wretched city for too many millennia. He will be freed! He will be freed! He will level all of this disgusting corruption."** "They respect not the stars in the sky yet they wish to compete, shining lights off the top of their towers. There will be consequences. The old gods will punish them all... The city of Ravnica must fall." It sounds a bit by rote. Gnog says that although he has friends in the city and wouldn't want to see them come to harm - **"oh no, no harm, we free them all!"** - it also definitely resonates that things need to change and it's too old and too stale.

The group continues to talk in this way; it seems to be a familiar topic, at times them reciting lines almost in unison. It's clearly a group way of thinking. They're disenfranchised, outcast, unwanted, maybe criminals; but society has only ever oppressed them and dealt them injustices. They're rightly aggrieved and Gnog can't help but sympathise; he saw aspects of that with the goblins in P6.

Eventually we finish up. Gnog thanks them. Well met and well wrestled! They are surprised that we would give them the monitor lizard. But Gnog points out that they have given us information and knowledge, and a good wrestling match. They want to make sure that we feel as if the trade was reasonable. They are apparently respectful as we are stronger - a hierarchy of strength. **"Your strength and spirit - oh to have it with us on a raid! That would be glorious - or when we head on caravans to the Red Wastes, make the journey with us..." at this, Gnog perks up - "in five sunrises hence, a full caravan will depart from here to the Red Wastes, to head to the Burning Tree. A 3 day journey. When the sun passes the high spire." (about 11am, we later calculate).** Gnog says he would be glad to lend them strength and learn more from them, so he will return here on the fifth sunrise. "Then let us exchange bones" says the half-orc. The half-orc takes off a bone necklace and looks expectant. Gnog has a small dragon tooth on a rope and hands that. The half-orc is confused. What is this creature? "Well, I can't really say... Kind of a big lizard..." - apparently this means that their people will know us when we arrive and the half-orc will speak on our behalf.

(Gnog notes that the half-orc is half orc, half *ogre*. He's huge. He's never seen them before. It's impressive.)

Gnog finally says, "My name is Gnog." The orc says, "My name is Luther". Gnog says, "I will see you in five sunrises, Luther" and we depart on good terms.

Gnog liked the Gruul. There is no subtext, no deception, no politics; they treat you the way they regard you; a very familiar, but very distant feeling, from his own tribe. He's sensed nothing like it from anyone else on Ravnica. It's a relief to think he can actually *understand* someone a bit, rather than the layers and layers of societal conduct that confuse him so much with others.

We head for the carnival. It turns out to be easier to do it from where we are and cut across rather than getting back on the Promenade, instead going under it; it's made possible by the amount of crumbling and general destruction, curiously, so once-impenetrable walls become sloping pathways. We cut south-west away from Skarrg and into the rubble. On the way, Gnog (perception 25) notices other Gruul but also occasionally some lone hooded figures trying to keep to shadows and be inconspicuous. He mentions it to Taz, but Taz recalls nothing from the book we have or things he's been previously told.

As we get close to the carnival we see many more people. Minotaur security is present, collecting entry fees - 2 zibs each. Banner reads, "Ravnica's Travelling Carnival Of Wonders". We wander through. There are strongmen and strongwomen; a bearded stone giant woman reading stones and telling your future while performing her own feats of strength; a whole area has smaller tents with 'fire tigers', very impressive looking. We search for the The Simic Twins and find a small tent with three entrances, each with a separate attraction; the twins are one of them, so we head in.

They're a strange couple. There is a large tank of water. Three separate tanks are present for the three acts, so you can kind of watch things at the same time. The Simic Twins are conjoined, shoulder blade to shoulder blade and back to back. We look around for Aurelio or Levinia, or something that might be Levinia! Aurelio is easy to spot, watching in a corner. We head over. "They're fascinating aren't they? Strangely very beautiful." and Deni comments "You really have a thing for the Simic, don't you?!" Gnog says, "I can't judge, I've ended up with a thing for the angels!" "Bad idea!" says Aurelio, "It never ends well!"

We walk. We reach a music area, with loud music playing; around the back of a tent we can hear each other but not be easily overheard.

"There's no investigation. It was deemed a natural death of old age, according to files - at the request of the Selesnya." We explain about the Orzhov ritual and how it confirms his confidence that it was a violent death - a murder - but the Orzhov are involved somehow. The spirit was not to be found and the Orzhova banished the priests trying to find it.

Aurelio has also noticed money being funnelled into a unit that doesn't do the "regular rounds". He might try and tail them, but we do warn him that times are not normal and the Boros might not be as honourable as he expects - *all* guilds are falling more and more out of balance. Aurelio agrees; he already always thought that the Angels act with impunity, driven by something holy, to the extent of zealotry. A burning holy fire inside them, knowing no reason. He asks if we've ever seen a Boros Angel in the throes of war? Of course, we haven't. "It's both beautiful and terrifying to behold. I've seen one raze through an entire encampment of Gruul, searching for a single perpetrator and sure that the clan was hiding them. When they reach that stage, it's almost like it's an ecstasy for them..." "...Not too different from the Rakdos in that" says Gnog. Aurelio says that the Boros creator angel are the ones who opened the door for Rakdos to enter Ravnica - the Angel existence had to be balanced by one who inhabited the opposite space.

We talk about the explosion 7 years ago at Nivix. Aurelio was a young man and only saw the aftermath. He thinks that sentry posts on Vitu-Ghazi should've had a good view and would've had a good chance of looking in that direction for routine patrolling. **We should ask Levinia if she can enquire**.

For the guilds to function, usually they should at least at some level work together so their opposing, balanced forces can match appropriately. But now, none of them are; they're oscillating to ever greater extremes.

Aurelio takes to the big top to show us a favourite act of his. There's a display of acrobatics, but with a loxodon opera singer providing supporting music! It's a real spectacle; throwing flaming torches to each other across the arena, magical light shows (which Taz identifies immediately) and more. We enjoy the show. Animals are included - even one where they're stacked atop each other! Gnog hopes they've been asked if they're OK with it and not coerced.

By about midday, having had breakfast and not feeling too hungry and with carnival food seeming to mostly be sweet treats, we head out and get back onto the Promenade; circumnavigate the outside of the Northern wall of Sunhome as we've done once before, cut across P4 to Tin Street and make our way into P5. It's a long walk, but we all felt like we needed it and at least until Tin Street we're able to walk at a good pace as we're more familiar with the route now.

The route off Tin Street brings us down through big buildings and over a huge chasm - again, no water - at least 100ft into the darkness and more below - with what the map tells us is "The Blistercoils" beyond. The area is the usual mix of shops, fairly plain dwellings and so-on but it's mostly a form of industrial, or parks. It's at a different scale to the factories of P6. There are gigantic waterwheels, along with laboratories and workshops all over. An industry of science. In the distance are many green towers, with hints of waterfalls below. Quite breathtaking. We realise this must be "Hightower" on the map.

We head in the direction of the waterwheels first. We go past quite a lot of parks to get there. We see signs for various colleges as we proceed along with a few taverns and the odd inn. Bookshops! Gnog wonders about anything planar-related, if not forbidden; investigation a lucky 19+1 -> 20. On the streets we visit, there's nothing that seems related to planar travel or studies in general. This area, at least, seems resolutely Ravnica-focused.

We reach an edge of giant cascading waterfalls, powering huge waterwheels that seem to send energy to banks of strange metal coils that make a buzzing noise. Ah, Blistercoils, we presume. This entire neighbourhood lies above a bank of these. It doesn't seem entirely safe, but it's still here, so...?

A very deep, beautiful lake - set into a sinkhole perhaps? - is some 150ft below with all these various waterfalls leading into it. There's one major water exit and even that has another waterwheel. It all seems to be fresh water - rainwater - not necessarily clean, but not the wastewater we saw in some conduits in P6.

It's mad, utterly mad; but really quite beautiful and undeniably spectacular. Water and green spaces helps Gnog like it that bit more.

We're aiming for the Ismeri Library. We head up into the Hightower area, where there are buildings with beautiful gardens and nooks for thinking. Groups of students, professors, poets, artists 'do their thing'. There are more colleges here; names and dates. We were told that the date year in Ravnica is 10076. One of the oldest colleges boasts a date of 185, so it's basically 10,000 years old. Quite a lengthy tenure! We can see lots of layers of architecture here, and it looks like maybe only a small part of that college is physically truly that old. Impressive nonetheless.

Prism University itself was, we learn, founded in the 5000s some time. No specific year seems available. It's huge. It is open to everyone, but teaches specifically theories of magic; it's the university of magic. There are ten banners in front, one for each guild.

While we make our way around via the large buildings, we do see plenty of people making the journey via flight; it seems simpler. We see people being conveyed on flying carpets! **Sharp intake of breath. A flying carpet.** Gnog says, "I want one!"

We finally reach the library. It's about 1pm. "Ismeri Library: Open", it says; but the "Open" is in mosaic tiles above the grand entrance. We deduce that it never shuts. We enter into a beautiful foyer with 6 stairs arching outwards in different directions to various other levels. Carrying on in a curve towards the back is a hallway that opens into what looks like more of the library; there are further rooms to the side with stairs behind them leading down. From the outside, we'd noticed multiple towers and even some external stairs - there seem to be layers of construction, but it seems from architecture and consistency that this central part has always been here and looked this way.

The foyer soars up about 5 storeys - some 50ft - with light coming in through intricate stained glass windows of the facade and from a central dome above. The walls are covered in brass and white stone descriptions - signs - of topics, areas of study, and the floors that they are on. Near the back of the main foyer can be seen two separate rooms accessed from a short curving ramp that hovers either side of the narrower hallway leading further beyond. The use of two rooms lets the line of sight continue uninterrupted through the hallway. The left is office and administration; the left is records. Maybe we should try looking the Voda and his history, if they have those kinds of records.

We head there first, to find out what kind of records these are. It transpires that they're records of all past librarians and staff; luminaries, contributors, financial donors and so-on. Administrative records. We are assisted by a staff member in looking for any records related to Voda Durmuid, in case he had any involvement here. No records exist for recently alive people. We are told that the office might be able to assign us a helper if we know what we're looking for; also directed towards Social History if it's about finding particular people. History wing also has Guild history, Guild laws are in the legal section - found within Organisations And Guilds.

We have no real clue where to start, but figure a guild history could provide us with a foundation. There's an entire area called "Personages" - people of note - that have prominence in guild history. We start digging, aided by an older-looking faerie, only 1ft tall, who assists people in this area. As "beginners" we are pointed to a section called "General Knowledge"; first we need to know the millennium, then we can find that section, read more, find people, then look up the people.

Taz: Investigation only 11. A book on current leaders of guilds was easy to find; it takes more digging for recently diseased. There are various books on founders of the guilds, the Paruns, who are the people who signed the guild pact. Niv Mizzet and Rakdos were there at the start and are still believed alive today. Intelligence-based insight from Taz 15 on anything interesting about current guild leaders and their presumably highly disparate ages; indeed it varies wildly. Some have been in power for a very short period. Some are young, some are old. The Dimir are not mentioned though curiously. "Unknown" is written.

It's taken a long time (6 hours!) to get this far (dreadful rolls) so we side-quest a bit. Scions and Orzhov. Scions are just people who can trace their ancestry back to Orzhov himself; they are, in essence, royalty. **Teysa Karlov** then stands to potentially rule, or come close to it, this church. It's very complex because both current alive *and previous dead* rulers all rule concurrently - that's what we saw at the Basilika. The alive leaders rule the living half of the church, but don't have absolute power; every previously-living ruler is still part of the Orzhov, belonging to the Ozbidat ghost council; a parliament. It rules over the not-alive part of the Orzhov specifically.

It's getting late and we consider going back to our apartment, but we notice that people sleep here, if need be. We see it around. There are places to get food nearby and we find out that the office will allocate rooms if you want a place to bed down temporarily. We find one; it's 1 zino (1gp) for the night. A canteen/restaurant off the side of the library sells meals for 1/2 zino each so we eat there. It's decent, though entirely unspectacular.

Before bed, we figure we'll get our heads into how the science section looks. We head there and it's a growing area, with almost 150,000 books already, we're told. Walking the row-ends, we find things arranged by topic. We spend until quite late asking and chatting with people about what the sections have and get some basic concepts of science from Ravnica's perspective, which gives us the grounding about which isle to read. By 11pm we've some idea of where to look if we have a question in mind.

We head up to our room and sleep. It doesn't feel like we need a watch.

That night, Taz, disadv. perception lucky-ish roll 15. The door to the apartment opens in the middle of the night and someone walks in, looking around. There seem to be some kind of spell being cast; blue lines are appear in the air. The person walks up to the other three party members and leans over them, then waves blue lines over their heads and walks over each of them and starts to turn, Taz 'activates' fully and shouts a warning. The person disappears quickly! The party wakes. Taz tries to cast Identify quickly (not a ritual) to see if he can figure out what might've happened. There are two traces of magic he can detect; mild auras of enchantment and of divination. The divination was a Detect Thoughts spell. The enchantment is something we hasn't encountered before; he thinks it's Encode Thoughts.

Gnog insight (via luck) 19; whatever this was, someone was trying to read minds and take recordings or imprints. It's aligned with behaviour of the Dimir given what we're read, but it also might have something to do with the warehouse fight.



# Day 24 (Riglan 61 - 6 hours shifted forward)

We use stuff in the chest for breakfast, as it's just easier. We focus in the morning on science, specifically, red crystals and energy related to leylines. What is known of that? Red crystals - dead end. There's far too much information; it's very heavily studied.

On leylines, especially in regard to Vitu Ghazi and Selesnyan beliefs; there are various theories across a few books in different ways. Magical channels, spirits of the dead, pathways, and more. It's at least commonly widely held as belief that they're real and channel some form of power.

What about interplanar studies - any theories or studies of planes beyond this one? There's an entire section of the library talking about spelljamming! Astral sea, helms, other planets, the works. It's not unknown at all. In a conversation about why nobody's built one, we're pointed to the magical planar travel section. Why would you build ships if you can just move magically? We investigate that. There are many accounts of it - it seems a well accepted and well known mode of travel. So magical inter-planar travel, possibly to other worlds, is well known - just no spelljamming helms.

It opens up a lot of possibilities for ways at, at least for people moving around solo, there could be people coming in and out of this plane magically without much of a trace. So we investigate issues of traceability but we can't understand enough of the texts - not even the language. Taz Arcana only 12; he has a go; the planar travel spell is expensive; it might leave traces but there doesn't seem to be much detailed in the book we've found of the aftermath. It is at least clear that this a high level thing and a power that not many people would have. The spell is called Plane Shift and Fee-Ree even recognises it; it'd be the same on Toril.

One last line of enquiry. The Dimir. We found books that said "Unknown". Can we find any other books that say better? Investigation checks all round - Taz and Gnog roll very low investigation (4+3 and 2+1!), so don't find anything; Fee-Ree gets 12, Deni's unerring accuracy persists. Really, the most interesting thing about all of the attempts at research, is how *little* is written about them; no wonder the rest of us struggled so much.

Deni finds things we mostly already know - it traces to the 60-year span surrounding the Decamillennial, when the existence of the Dimir which had long-since been rumoured as a 10th Guild. Older books are written in an older language, so translations have been done and there is always a bias and skew of more modern eyes when translating older texts.

Now, most of the Guilds in the older texts weren't named in and of themselves - their names later were derived from founders. A Sphinx called Azor. A demon called Rakdos.

* We find a side-quest about the Izzet who were named after Nivm Izzet - not Niv Mizzet - by Niv himself; by all accounts always a very self-important person. Even Mizzium is named after himself. He created Nivix, named after himself. He could well be, in fact, the oldest living being on the planet other than Mt Selesnya. Nivm hoards knowledge, science; not gold. He was already the head of his League when the Guild Pact was signed; he's allegedly 16,000 years old and believed to be the last of his kind on this world. It's also believed that he's not *from* this world, but arrived on Ravnica a very, very long time ago. A ruby and sapphire crystal gem dragon (red and blue).

They only managed to find names for 9, though. It seemed there was a missing piece - information, secrecy, stealth and shadow in the makeup of Ravnica's balance, so even though they could only assign 9 names, they were sure there was a 10th. "The Ten Paruns Signed The Pact", said records clearly. But for 1000s of years, people assumed there were only 9. Quite a few buildings related to builds only have 9 pillars.

There was a long-running plot involving **Lord Szadek**, a long-hidden leader and original Parun of the unseen signature of the 10th Guild - the original leader of Dimir. He went into hiding so effectively that people didn't even realise he existed. He was a vampire. He enlisted a high priestess of the Golgari, **Savra** a Devkarin Elf and few other minions, to try and take over all of the other Guilds by inserting agents into them. He figured this was a form of loophole around the Guild Pact magic that stopped any one guild gaining too much power; the Guilds would ostensibly have individual leaders, it's just that Szadek would control them in turn.

Agrus Kos uncovered this plot and wielded powers that harness the power behind the Guild Pact - which has power and authority over every Ravnican - to arrest Szadek. He arrested him on provision of trying to oppose the Guild Pact, sending him to prison via that magical power. **This surfaced the existence of Dimir** and it was, through this, revealed that the whole purpose of that Guild was to try and do just that - destroy the pact. This forces the other nine Guilds to work together to try and keep it in place. Using the Guild Pact magic to arrest someone for doing exactly what that same magic created them for caused the Guild Pact to shatter.

The Dimir did manage to recover, but they're no longer a secret since this plot surfaced their presence - trying to remove them destroyed the Guild Pact. It proved they were the 10th Guild; an intentionally unseen force, hiding in the shadows for 10,000 years, suddenly thrown into the light.

Augustin IV, the Grand Arbiter of the Azorious Senate at the time, for some reason went to the prison and killed Szadek. Augustin enslaved Szadek's ghost ostensibly as punishment, but really because he wanted to compel the ghost to go to the Parhelion to kill the Boros angels and their guildmasters, to bring the Boros down. Remember, at this point there's no Guild Pact, so it's just a scramble for power. Szadek's ghost got revenge by killing Augustin and removing his soul, apparently; we're not sure how that went down.

Deni remarks that this library seems to have books about *anything* but it's very strange how little there is about the Dimir. Even accounting for the fact that it'd only be in the last 70 years. Not even a book about current leaders. No book about their headquarters location, but other guilds have them. Nothing about membership or purpose.

There are theories that the Dimir aren't perhaps strictly evil, so much as a "necessarily evil" - another check and balance. We read books about how the balance works.

* The Azorious define the laws; their opposites are the Gruul. Remove all laws and control. The Boros with zeal enforce the laws so dispassionately laid down by the Azorious; perhaps the Dimir are their opposition, with zeal breaking the law, but working with the societal structure because it benefits them.

* So some guilds overlap but do things in a different way (Azorious and Boros; Selesnyans - living in harmony with nature - and Gruul - who also like nature and life, but it's not about harmony, it's about tearing down society and being part of it); while others oppose (Azorius and Gruul, Boros and Dimir).

* The Orzhov have monetary and spiritual wealth; they offer redemption; yet they are also corrupt and criminal. The opposing force would be Rakdos (and the Gruul).

* The Simic believe in advancement like the Izzet, but believe that research and development happens through perfecting physical forms; through evolution; they engineer, than believing in elemental forces (genetic engineers vs physicists).

* The Golgari (technically "The Golgari Swarm") recycle - they believe in life, but they believe death is life too. There's overlap with Selesnyans, or even Simic and Gruul somewhat. They believe that the other guilds are shortsighted and inevitably doomed to collapse; they think they'll be the last ones standing. It's possible that the Boros would be their opposites; the Orzhov too, since the Orzhov seek to control death, thus, battles in the streets of Midori Park.

It's all based around quite opposing views, but not in strict pairs - it's not like there are 5 guilds that cleanly oppose 5 others. Many guilds have overlaps but many guilds also find opposition in more than one other; though some are more binary (the Boros and the Dimir are particularly strongly opposed).

So, given the Golgari history and Dimir being unveiled, why did they build a statue to Agrus Kos, the Boros leader who had done this thing? He'd always been virtuous and good. When their Parhelion went into another dimension takings its angels with it, he took charge and held it together, keeping the Boros able to protect Ravnica. It was recognised that he was *trying* to do the right thing. He had also sacrificed himself to contain Szadek's ghost - Szadek after murdering Augustin had tried to destroy Ravnica by using powers he discovered in undeath that let him control spirits of the dead. Agrus Kos' sacrifice was so that his ghost could act as a warden to Ravnica's shadow plane of the dead, condemning himself to an eternity of opposing Szadek's ghost, to keep him contained.

* **Someone asked us - what evil is making the Golgari 'act out' and move on the top surface in ways they wouldn't, and who, or what is escalating Rakdos. It might be that it's not as simple as the Living Guild Pact being absent; maybe someone is making the pendulum swing more and more wildly.** There could be a long-running influence that seeks opportunities to destroy; it almost managed it 70 years ago, but the Living Guild Pact saved the situation (against his will, we learn; he was reluctant).

* The only reason to suppose that there might be a guiding hand is at-best-known-since-revealing-the-Dimir, their past attempts to overturn the Pact were nowhere near as brazen and damaging as trying to take over every single guild. So that *might* be out of character. After that, everyone else acts like they would act.

This leads our research in the direction of the **Living Guild Pact: Jace Beleren** who comes from another plane. He's visited Ravnica several times over decades prior to the Decamillennial. Nobody seems to know why. There's not actually all that much written about *him*. So we look into the original guild pact. Philosophy books. The Guild Pact (living or otherwise) seems to hold the fabric of the planet together, but it's also a limiter that stops any one guild gaining too much power - the Guild Pact magically balances their powers, but the murder of the heads of Dimir prove there are ways around it. The person they killed was thought to be guildless and it was only when the pact shattered that the penny dropped. It was a physical tablet in the Hall Of The Guild Pact - it *literally* shattered.

Nobody is sure quite what caused the break; the arrest? The execution? The revealing of the Dimir? Probably a combination - it was the shift in power that was caused; a willing rejection of the balance of power.

So why, if guilds are now acting out and pushing beyond their bounds, escalating and swinging more violently between extremes, is the pact not again broken? Well, the Living Guild Pact is designed to be able to tolerate that *but then restore balance* by being an arbiter of disputes. So if he's absent there's no-one to pass judgement and his absence is therefore an opportunity for anyone in any Guild who has ambitions beyond limitations of the pact.

* The one person we could speak to more about this could be **Lavisha** at The Hall Of The Guild Pact.

**Group aided (adv.) perception, Gnog: 26; he observes that the library area dedicated to this person and his acts *has a lot of missing books*, which are present in the ledger that led us to this collection. Taz points out some scraps of paper and marks imprinted onto some of the books and shelves. Deni looks closer. They look related to Thieve's Cant. A way to communicate. Gnog says, "Dimir" - this feels like something the Zhentarim would do.**

Gnog and Deni investigate more. There are marks like this all over the library! Some are subtle, even on that's a shadow cast on a table by a mark on a lantern. Another we spot because an ordered sequence of books has two that are swapped; a blade of grass is being used as a bookmark. Tiny symbols are etched on it. As we're looking, Taz works on a Comprehend Languages ritual. He stands very still while doing it, and suddenly notices a young Vedalkin, blue-skinned but short, 4ft, maybe a child, with a short dark brown/grey wool cape, walks in clutching a book - hood up, face obscured. He browses the shelves, looks around, seems to think that Taz might be a statue or construct, walks right up close, pulls a book off a shelf and flips it open. A triangular sheet of parchment falls which he catches, examines, then seems to cause the parchment to burn in his hand so that it just basically disappears. He puts a small mark on the area of the shelf under where the book would be and returns the book, leaving it very slightly pulled out. This person didn't even realise Taz was watching.

When Taz has finished his ritual he fetches the others and describes what just happened. He examines the mark on the shelf under the book. It is a name and **Alina** and the word **accepted** or perhaps **received**. Then there is what seems to be a code, which seems to correspond to another shelf in the library. We go to a darker, quieter corner, Fee-Ree casts Invisibility on us all and we head quietly for the shelf location that we think the code indicates. Deni leads the way, with us holding hands in a chain. Looking around the corner, we see the child putting another book back and walking off. We hurry to the book and look underneath. There's nothing underneath, so we check *in* the book. Hidden between pages near the spine, making it hard to spot unless actively searched for, is a tiny folded up corner of paper. Taz says "I have no fingerprints", and carefully unfolds it (and we notice that a hat, 1920s Earth USA detective style, has appeared on his head through his creation power).

It says "Item intercepted, will deliver to **Nightvale** when requested. Who is my handler? Release payment to usual account. **Alina**."

So, books contain instructions to do something, but the child we saw is Alina, who was looking for something in a book despite *already* apparently having some kind of mission. Either more details of what's next, or a new mission, who knows. They then left an acknowledgement of their name and collection of the instructions, along with directions to find a more detailed message asking other questions.

To test our theory, we look at the piece of grass we found. It's another library location. We carefully return book and crass and head to the new location, all the while still invisible. We find another book, another folded and hidden piece of paper in a similar location, which contains a more detailed message; different name on this one: **Jahan**. It says, "Tailed/followed, certainly suspicious, have incriminating thought in jar, pay to Good Mother." Ah - so yes, this also boosts our theory that last night's memory thief was Dimir.

We have stumbled across part of the Dimir communications network. We don't know how all of it works, but when something has been read, it is destroyed. 

We mull over options, as we now have more information and more possibilities, but therefore, more questions than ever before. Since we're invisible, we kind of stake out the shelf for a while. Will anyone come to collect the note? It actually doesn't take long. Someone pads quietly down the hall, purposefully. They walk up to a book - but not the one we were watching, just one nearby - pull it out, insert a folded piece of paper, walk to another shelf; move a book, leave a mark, put the book back; then they walk to the end of the section, look around, pull back one of the brass plaques on the wall, it slides, they push against a plate and stonework on the fall drops into a spiral staircase which they descend. After a short while, the stairs 'reset'.

We wait a short while, before Deni whispers, "Come on then!", activates the stairs - which seems to be enough to break her invisibility spell. We have to go hand-in-hand as the rest of us are still hidden. Deni elects to go first, so then Gnog, Fee-Ree and Taz watching the rear. But it's pitch dark! Deni uses her goggles and Taz has darkvision; Gnog and Fee-Ree just need guiding. Fortunately, at the bottom are lights - spaced widely, dim and recessed, but enough. The construction is almost identical to the library above, so we assume this was all built at the same time. We follow a hallway to a crossroads.

Gnog, survival only 10, can't figure out where people went - but finds a mouse. He fishes some cheese out of his pocket and offers it. The mouse is interest. Gnog whispers to the group that he'll try talking, so he needs some time. Gnog after 10 minutes is able to say hello the mouse. It thanks him for the cheese. He offers a little more and asks if the mouse sees people around here going in any one of these three directions, and it says that most recently someone went "that way" - and indicates. Gnog thanks the mouse, tells it to keep out of the way of people as they can react badly to mice sometimes, and the mouse agrees - it has a family, so is careful. Gnog gives the mouse extra cheese for the family and bids it farewell.

Now Taz and Fee-Ree are still invisible but Gnog and Deni aren't. More hand-in-hand still. We follow in the direction indicated.

The corridor slowly curves around, ending in a circular chamber. Deni stops us just outside. There's someone in the room. Taz looks inside. It's the same person from before. They are standing in front of a small stone pool. He tells Gnog to look; it looks a bit like Seraphina's pool, or a small version of the precog pool. So, memory reading or precognition. The person holds a small bag and pulls out a vial, dumps it into the water and studies it. Gnog stealth 23, Taz adv. stealth 22. We are not noticed.

Gnog walks into the room, clears his throat and says, "You're not the person who was reading our memories last night, are you? I think we need to speak to the Dimir!"

The person jumps and goes invisible. Gnog calls, "Deni, he's gone invisible" - and then says, "we are not looking to fight or quarrel with anyone, we're just trying to make contact". Deni is able to see through the invisibility illusion; he's not running yet. She says, "I can see you! If we were trying to kill you we'd have done so by now." Gnog adds, "if this is a question of you being in trouble because we were lucky enough to see you come down - believe me, you're not the only one to have given away secrets today and besides, we're happy to not mention how we came by any information you might share with us."

The figure reappears, holding a dagger. Gnog walks to the opposite side of the chamber and squats down to try and indicate no hostile move or physical threat. He says, "There are four us, two you can see and two you cannot. None of us mean you harm. We have business with the Dimir and we know they're watching us."

"I don't think you understand... I don't know what it is you want from me, but you speak of the Dimir as if it is an organisation. I'm down here because this is a scrying pool and I need to read some thoughts. I don't know who else might use this place but I was told I could have this time. I don't see anyone else."

So Gnog confirms - "I did wonder, after the decamillennial - if Dimir was perhaps a coalition, possibly even leaderless; I imagine few of you know the faces of others, and communicate purely through notes and signs in the library or other places?" Taz tries to be persuasive, to see if he can open up (persuasion roll with BuiltFS only 22). The dagger is lowered. "Well, you're right, I don't know much. But I do know that the Dimir have reformed - that's how I was recruited - I've never met **Lavaz** before - but he's the one who apparently rebuilt the Dimir after Lord Szadek lost his mind. I'm as afraid of the stories of the Dimir as the next person! But this aligns with my skillset and the pay is not as bad as what I did before. I am but a low level operative."

Deni says, "I'd assume that is what a high level person would say! But" (insight 32) "I actually believe you. You have nothing to fear from us. We will not compromise you."

* He fears it may be too late if he's being watched. All he knows is he turns up, checks the Hall Of Records and if there's a time slot next to his name, as a guest, he knows he needs to come. He speaks to one of the librarians who hands him a card with a specific row and location. He looks for a sign indicating the book he needs to find and usually finds a job there. When the job is done he goes back to the book and leaves a note telling them the outcome and how he'd like to be paid, puts his name - not his real name, nobody uses those! - on the original book he was led to and checks out any other book with the librarian so they know the job is done.

Gnog says, "Thanks for your candour; we came here invisible so Deni might've been seen operating the stairs but it'd require someone to be waiting and watching a while at the library. You could be OK. Is there another way out that doesn't bring us up the same stairs?"

We're told that if we're good with heights and don't mind getting wet, then a hallway takes us to a ledge under a waterfall. From there we can head up and get dry.

Before we leave though Deni pushes it - "how *do* we contact the Dimir? If we want to speak to someone?" "Well you know how our system works - you could leave a message." "But how would we know who would pick it up? Wouldn't it just be another operative?" "Just go through the librarians. **The whole library is run by the Dimir.** It takes the Dimir to be able to amass this much information in one place."

So we leave him to his remaining scrying time and head down the other indicated corridor towards this "interesting"-sounding ledge. We can follow our ears; we can hear the distant roar of the water. There are quite a few turns, including a turn into a small room with towels and other things here; this could be an entrance for the daring (or the flying?) as well as an exit. We walk out onto a stone ledge. It's about 3ft wide, under a bit of a natural rock overhang before it pops out behind a waterfall. It's wet and slippy and Gnog feels perhaps a bit underdressed this time! Deni says she'll be fine. Taz and Fee-Ree, maybe less so! Fee-Ree casts Fly instead for her and Taz (so we are all, finally, visible again). Gnog Athl. 25, Deni Acro. 26. We make our way along and eventually find a way back up onto some stairs that cut back in, safer than before, emerging onto a "proper" stone level. But before we do, Gnog has good look down - not afraid of heights.

He sees, up close, **Zonot Seven**. A beautiful, clear sinkhole. He can see it going down very deep; there are lights, structures, even aquatic vehicles and various creatures swimming around. It goes down as far as his eyes can see (which in the clear water, is a long way). There are even beautiful, elegant-looking glass and ceramic structures attached to the sides of the sinkhole that climb their way up the sides in arcs, which seem to be strange buildings with smaller single chambers, decorative towers and more; there are also various stairways - ways to get down on foot, if nimble enough. He sees a couple of maybe elven people with wings, frills on heads and necks flying past; they put their arms to their sides and kind of divebomb straight down into the water, then swim away.

We sit up in the late-afternoon sun drying off, with various students on lawns and courtyards enjoying sun too. We're back near the Hightower buildings. Once dry, we walk back towards the library - it must around 5-something by now - looking for a librarian. Let's leave a message. We find one. We leave this message with them:

  "You found our party of three quite interesting when we slept at the library last night.
  We are interested in you too. We are interested in helping Ravnica, if we can. We should
  talk, on your terms. In good faith, this is the address in the Fourth Precinct where you
  can find us".

The librarian looks at it and goes, "Hmm, I see. Very well. You forgot to check out a book! Might I recommend 'Schemes In The Dark'? It's an insider's account of the Ravnican underworld." Gnog says, "Excellent idea, thank you!" - we get it and bring it back. She says she can't let us check it out until we fill in a library user's card. Gnog writes his name and the address. "Enjoy your book. Remember, you can only have it for three weeks!"

*We head home, back across town*. What a strange couple of days. Deni is fascinated by the pool and would love to go down some time, but how would we breathe? "Fate will probably force us to find a way soon enough", says Gnog! There were, at least, vehicles down there.

We reach P4. It's early evening. Suddenly, a bright light shines above us and beams, almost moonbeams shine down onto us. It's quite alarming! We see, leaping down from one of the buildings beside us, is what we have learned is called a Felidar - one of the strange flying lion goat zebra things. Someone is astride it, wearing white and blue chain mail; someone with blue skin floats down too, wearing a long white and blue trimmed mage's robe and a cowl. He holds his hand out - **"Halt! The four of you are under arrest!"**

I guess it's going to be a long day.

"What for?" asks Gnog. We act surprised and non-combatative. "Disturbing the peace, breaking and entering and charges of homicide." Gnog says, "Those are serious charges - we will of course comply with your demands."

There's a law mage, a knight on the Felidar and we notice behind us two Boros soldiers. We follow them as instructed. We're brought to some kind of vehicle; we get in the back, the doors are closed and it levitates then conveys us, hovering a short distance above the street. We get just past the Bulwark, beyond where Tin Street descended into the Wayport, to the very edge of P4 at a large wall separating it from P1. We've been near here but elevated on the Promenade, not at ground level. There is an area raised up about 20ft above the wall, with arches and pillars; it's a raised courtyard with stairs leading up. The vehicle levitates up and slides into the courtyard, where it seems to have a space it fits into, tucked out of the way. There are two buildings at either end; one small, that seems to extend out the side, hovering improbably at the level of the courtyard; and on the other end, a building that is connected to the P1/P4 dividing wall, which is much larger; at least 20ft above the level of the courtyard, but extending below about 10ft (which means the bottom is still well above the ground).

We step out. Someone comes out of the smaller building; they're told we are to be placed in holding cells. We try to push the issue; we want to be able to speak to someone in authority - is that you? - and find out what this is all about, present our side of the story. They ask what it is we want to talk about? The law mage steps forward and repeats. Gnog describes in brief the events, but they insist it's a matter for the courts as this doesn't match their events.

**We're thrown into a cell; all of our possessions are taken**. We ask why we're being thrown into a cell given it's just allegations that we haven't been able to answer - when will we get to? We're told there'll be an interrogation and then a trial. These aren't the Boros - they're the Auzorious; we can't very well fight an entire guild.

It gets late, and we sleep, but take watches. Throughout the night, various people are brought into other cells.



# Day 25 (Riglan 62 - 6 hours shifted forward)

Morning breaks - we assume - since food and water is brought. At what we guess is about 10am, the cell is opened and we're asked to follow them. There's an interrogation which isn't of much use and seems to be a box ticking exercise. They've already told us it needs a judge.

Nothing else happens all day.



# Day 26 (Riglan 63 - 6 hours shifted forward) - local day Wednesday (7 day week)

Trial day! Very early - 8:30am - we're bought before a judge in a small courtroom that's part of the same complex we're already in. There aren't many other people - about half a dozen, including a representative of the Orzhov. There are a couple of (indentured) spirits too.

The judge is a Vedalkin, stood next to a rostrum. The clerk notes that we didn't resist arrest, have caused no trouble in cells and have not resisted or denied; that we disagree with the claims and would like to present an alternative version of events. The Orzhov show the warehouse, manifest and so-on, which lines up with what we saw.

They talk about surveillance; one from precog mages which matches things they have in the area that record stuff and ones provided with Orzhov. These we're told all match. The first part is described - us approaching the warehouse and entering via a window.

We explain that this is true, but it's about context; concerned citizens, didn't break anything; did enter via the window not the door. The Orzhov are asked it they're prepared to accept that we're new, etc. etc. but of course they say no.

Gnog mentions that a zone of truth would be a good way to go but we learn that no lies can be told in the courtroom.

Now there is the description from the Orzhov's perspective of the battle. The judge offers Gnog a view of the recordings and asks if he agrees with the recording. He agrees with the recording but not the interpretation.

Gnog points out our perspective is very different - a fight for our lives; the crystal glow and power; they attacked first and we could not deescalate. Things go back and forth. Cultural context, lack of awareness. We were completely unfamiliar with the language of the Orzhov (taking the "soul" and so-on).

The bailiff steps forward and to our surprise argues on our behalf; both sides here have advocates and it is a matter of perspective. And either way, lives were lost and that's a terrible thing.

The bailiff asks the judge if homicide is really the right charge in this instance; the Orzhov do by their own philosophy and admission not view life and death in the same way as some other citizens of Ravnica. Would it be acceptable to the Orzhov to advocate for a reduction to "physical harm"? The Orzhov agree to that. Taz steps forward and thanks the Orzhov for that gracious gesture, summarises our perspective but with the concessions and the things we stand firm upon, acknowledges much misunderstanding, and basically asks for lenience and perhaps financial recompense for loss, since we have means to pay such.

Taz: Persuasion: 16+11 -> 27, a lucky high roll. Taz's words have inspired the bailiff for other arguments, giving him an insight into us and our motivations. Him and the Orzhov representative are asked to approach the bench and they confer.

Ultimately the bailiff suggests that the judge is close to a decision. It would be helpful if we could inform the court what your intentions are while in Ravnica; the fear from the other side and the court is that, should these situations present themselves again, that we would - instead of going to the Boros or Azorious - take matters into our own hands again. We truthfully answer - albeit with much omission - that we're learning about the guilds; we'll be heading North with the Gruul, we've spent much time in the library and we'll spend more time doing that if we can.

The judge decides:

* On the matter of breaking and entering: We are aware and accept guilt that we did enter private premises; reasons mitigating somewhat but behaving outside the law in this way is not permitted (unless imminent danger to life and safety is *known*). The Orzhov have merit in their complaint. The objects taken must be returned with reparation for damage caused and release of animals. One of the items taken is of great interest to the accused and the Orzhov would be willing to sell that item at market item. We of course accept.

* On the matter of physical harm: There's no question that it occurred. The motivations seem confused on both sides, but in light of law it would be difficult to rule in favour of the accused. However, given the surrounding circumstances, no sentence of imprisonment; the charge is struck *if* we commit to not taking matters of law in their own hands unless the requisite imminent danger to life and health is present. The Boros and Azorious should be the primary source of contact. All efforts must be made to contact them first. It is suggested that the Orzhov organise a time for "the accused" to spend five days with the Orzhov such that both parties will come to understand each other's points of view, differences and perspectives more. It is agreed.

Upon leaving the court room, we need to sort out the numbers with the Orzhov. Three animals were not recovered - the weird monkey, a small bull-like creature and a bird. 80 zinos. They want the sulphur rock; fine. The crystal market value is 350 zinos. We pay them 430 gold, since they're happy with that.

We do learn that the Orzhov source the crystals from off-world. We learn also that laying down arms and surrendering is recognised widely in Ravnica as a way to deescalate. Noted! The Orzhov also thought we were there to destroy the warehouse, or feared it, because of prejudice. They saw what they thought was a half-giant (Gruul) and Viyashino (probably Gruul also).

We talk about having to "spend time together". Perhaps it can be a true learning opportunity. We talk about the ritual finding the Voda's spirit. They tell us that the priests would've been afraid for their careers - the Ozbidat are eternal; to have angered them might permanently have affected their career prospects or even their after-death prospects. Gnog says, "We must go in two days, North beyond the Red Wastes to meet the Gruul. I believe it's three days there and back, so it may be a week or two, before we were free to meet for our five days; if this unacceptable we understand..." - but in fact it's fine, so we find out how we can contact the Orzhov lawmaker once we're back from the Gruul to start our five days penance.

From the card with the address, we learn that these people are in fact part of the retinue of the Kalov family. **Taysa**. They work for that family. It could be a more interesting five days than we expected.

### 1500XP (750XP to us, 3750 to Taz - who moves to Level 8)

It's only 11am. We end up having walked and talked towards the Orzhova in P1. The Orzhov head their way and Gnog winks at Fee-Ree & Deni and says "Let's find a music shop". We head south a little to find numerous good shops and even museums next to 10th District Plaza. Gnog investigation - nat 20 + 1. He realises the better shops are a bit off the beaten path, behind the square a bit. We find a beautiful, old shop, looks like maybe an old bank building, which catches Gnog's eye because in the window behind columns are some of the most beautiful instruments he's ever seen. We head in. Many instruments are on plinths and display. It's two storey inside; a big shop. It is called "**The Pure Tone**".

We ask for something like a dulcimer but with a different tone perhaps, *or* a book of written music. We're taken to see various dulcimers of varying shapes and sizes. They're made of various different materials. Two made of rowan and ash are particularly catching. Taz is invited to try each. Gnog perception 19 (via Luck). Deni sees the same thing. Not actually that many instruments in here for the shop's size; she thinks it's going to be *very* expensive! They sound amazing; but Gnog is aware that Taz is very attached to his existing instrument, which is basic. Taz though ends up producing that, matching tuning and finding that it's good for more powerful, bassy notes while one of the two new ones is particularly complimentary to that at the higher range; he can play basic melodies with each hand but it's limited if he does that.

We hear that it was created for one of the Azorious sphinxes, but they changed their mind about it. It's actually magical; a rare, one-off piece, 1500gp. This is actually a surprise, despite the item's limitations; we expected more. Gnog thanks them and says we'll take that - Taz protests at the cost but Gnog says it's fine; we also ask about music books. Taz says he can remember lots of tunes but new music is always interesting. He struggles to invent music.

He's asked what kind of music he likes. He's enjoyed some of the rhythmic music he's heard spilling from clubs, so more modern or upbeat, rhythmic music, might allow him to make some interesting combinations. There's a section with interpretations for a stringed instrument. We're shown folders with sheet music, which is a more popular way to use it; allows sheets to be laid out instead of flipping. We ask about per-song cost and we're told that one could be included for free, but then we're shown scrolls that a helper can rotate and the music moves along. It's quite a new invention. There's a case of music for 50gp. OK, so 1500+50, 1550gp. (We're shown how to best set up the case up - there are rods that can be pulled out of the case and a scroll can be set on it and it can even be automatically wound and moved by a clockwork mechanism via an optional extra).

Unfortunately, this isn't a discount kind of shop. Persuasion 24, we do get the gold star treatment - the dulcimer comes with a case, and we do get one extra piece of free sheet music and the clockwork addition is included too. Gnog pays 155pp and we thank them and head out.

Outside Taz is acting almost embarrassed and overwhelmed. And Gnog explains as Fee-Ree and Deni are grinning - "You're a party of our family, and at the courthouse, your persuasion and way with words saved us from jail. That's worth much more than this mere gift can express, but it's all I could think of to get you." Deni also points out, "It'll also be great to have beautiful music to listen to rather than just Gnog talking all the time". Fee-Ree adds, "We've noticed that you're fond of your dulcimer but it does have some limitations, it isn't full scale; this one is full scale, and we saw that you found a way to use them both, with some compromises, if you so wish. So depending on the style of music, you now have a choice of instrument." Gnog adds "Certainly today, and not for the first time I'd wager, we would truly have been lost without you."

Shitty prison food is bad. P6 food is good. P6? Yes, P6, lunchtime. We can ask Gibo and Bebe about the now-legal red crystal too. But food and drink first. Gnog favours that strange spirit from **The Chasmcliff** and there's always Foundry Way Smokehouse, but we investigate a bit to see if there's anything else interesting too. We happen upon a small caravan setting that is set up to make and sell food, which is very popular. It sells sort of tacos, filled with fresh herbs, lime and mince, so we have those. We're shown by friendly goblins how to eat them without wearing them! 1 regular metal silver each, weighed, or 6 for 5sp which lots of other people seem to be doing, so we have two each. Taz has a taste as usual.

A Boros patrol marches past. Some of the middle-aged goblins acknowledge them respectfully. Some of the older guard are more dismissive and spiky. Some of the younger ones seem more actively angry and have to be held back by older folk.

Suddenly there's a loud bang and smoke pours out of a factory, goblins running out. People at the food cart run that way and we do too. There's been some kind of accident - we hear that "Matt" is missing - Gnog asks if we can help? "They're inside - there's a fire!" so we run in, Gnog shouting to Deni to ready the water "bottle". "Cover your mouths from the smoke" advises Fee-Ree. Gnog has to grab one of his adventuring shirts from the bag, he has no cloth!

Black smoke pours from the right hand side of the factory where some machinery seems to be on fire. Shrapnel is strewn across the ground. Gnog shouts "Matt! Matt" and Deni, disav. perception. Nat 20 & 12 -> 19 total. He hears coughing and shouting, then spots a metal bar that seems to have been an upper floor support that's fallen and trapped someone. He runs over, asks Deni to attend to the fire, asks Fee-Ree and Taz to be ready to pull out the trapped person and tries to lift the bar - Fee-Ree clears her throat! - Gnog remembers to rage. Athl. check adv., 23. It starts to lift but then we have to leap back as water from Deni's bottle send sparks flying and a brief jump in the fire. Deni stops immediately! We get back to it and have another go. A second athl. check - same outcome - 23. He manages to lift a pillar a bit, but there's still some kind of table or heavy metal plate lying on the guy. Gnog shouts, "Anyone able to move that?" and Taz, surprisingly, says "I have an idea!" - and the plate / table gets up, now with some strange arms and legs sprouting, carefully lifts the goblin and walks nonchalently to Taz's side. WTF! We'll ask about that later. The fire is worsening; we retreat. Fee-Ree turns to the fire, hearing that water is bad and tries using Control Flame to try and reduce the spreading edges. Then she uses a sorcery trick to convert a spell to cold and casts a fireball - except it's a frostball. The rest of us have never seen that before - at first it's alarming as we see her telltale fireball spell forming, but then it changes mid-way, turning into a white frost ball, vapour of chilled air starting to fall away. She hurls it at the fire. It doesn't put it out, but does bring it down a lot; it's enough to use Control Flame repeatedly until it's cold enough to not restart. Meanwhile, Taz and the table have retreated out of the smoke to outdoors, Gnog following behind, Deni and Fee-Ree close behind.

Matt is injured. Taz medicine check 19+2 -> 21; a broken leg, crushed libs, dislocated hip. Magic healing will be the fastest way to set all that back. He casts Healing Word at L3, for 13hp. He's looking less serious, but will need rest.

What went wrong? The Boros arrive just in time to be too late. We explain and show them. Deni is investigating - it seems like an accident. There was an unstable field that blew up and brought down part of the floor. The factory owner is kind of freaking out; people were hurt, work will stop etc. - the goblins are almost more worried about the work stopping, but they're reminded that injury was more significant and at least that aspect is OK. The Boros are the same - not worried about health & safety laws, just that people are OK (thanks to passers-by).

Gnog takes the factory owner to a quiet corner and asks if, perchance, financial pressure made it hard to maintain equipment as well as he might prefer. "It's just been hard getting replacement parts... It's my mistake, I just... Took too many chances. We should've closed while waiting. I just made the wrong call..." Gnog asks what he estimates the repair cost would be - the difficulty is getting the part. Money does figure too, but the part is the coolant. Gnog gets as specific and detailed a specification as he can, having called Taz over to listen to this too. They'll be busy with floor repairs anyway.

We drop in briefly at Chasmcliff - followed a distance away by a fair number of now-not-at-work goblins! - for the same drinks as last time; 1 Azorious silver. We're considering walking around to Wayport but Fee-Ree says she doesn't have the patience for that, so she casts Fly! We can jump right off the cliff next to the tavern. Taz is keen to try his new instrument's magic, so he Flies himself and Fee-Ree only needs a L5 spell for the rest of us.

We drop down into Wayport. It does attract a few glances, but nothing too untoward because flying isn't too unusual here.

Now we need to find this coolant. We know the rough areas of Wayport from our prior visit so we can narrow the search, but even then, Gnog can't find anything (rolls a 4+1 and 2+1 with Luck!) but Taz figures it out - another nat 20 + 3. We find a shop that seems right. Taz has the specifications and knows exactly what he needs, but finds out that there's a particular mechanism that this coolant uses, but that machine didn't have it; it seems they were using the downrated, less efficient machine version. With this additional component, you use less coolant - it's a recycling feature of sorts - far more efficient. We ask for a price on a volume of coolant and where we might buy the component. That's no problem; there's a section with it - we should get that first so the coolant tanks we're given can be tailored.

We find that this component has various grades - 5, 10 and 15 gold. 15 obviously. We take that back to the coolant shop. The shopkeeper fetches appropriate canisters. Two should last around 6 months. They've been rationed out lately, and more expensive, **because someone somewhere has been buying up a LOT of coolant**. Prices are very high - he's apologetic. Each canister is 10gp. Taz isn't really able to bargain the price down, partly because there's no bulk to sell - we can only in fact buy two. So we pay 20gp and take the canisters and machinery.

We exit out same as last time - it was faster via Midori Park, assuming no warehouse side-quests! We do now spot quite a few Orzhov warehouses as we go through. Gnog perception only 9, doesn't see much. Deni tugs at Gnog's leather skirt (!) - she points out two wagons leaving one of the warehouses, FILLED with cooling tanks. Gnog hastens up, hails the driver in a friendly tone and asks where they might be taking such a large number of coolant tanks? He can't really tell us where they're going though - privacy and all - but as he heads off we see labels on the crates anyway **and unsurprisingly, it's Nivix**.

We carry on and make haste back to the factory, where people are cleaning up, some kobolds having joined the crew and about 4 gnomes - friends of theirs apparently - are trying to fix up machinery. Gnog hands the gnomes the coolant unit - says "You'll need to add this!" - they look to the foreman, "You didn't tell us you managed to secure one of these!". They say they'll be done in an hour. We leave the tanks with them. They seem to be removing more pieces of machinery than they're adding! We watch them work; it's restful watching someone else do the work for a change! Short rest. During this Gnog explains to the foreman that we found things at Wayport (and hope he isn't angry that we did this without asking first, but fortunately he's very happy).

The gnomes finish their work. They are apparently now "square" with the foreman - there must've been some debt owed there.

The foreman yells "start her up!" and the machine is started; tests are run, and the goblins seem very impressed because the machine is purring along far better than they've seen before. There's a sense of relief - quotas will be met and, even though they have to work today after all (!) they'll be saving work time later.

We learn through this that they are making the high-tensile steel at the heart of most of Ravnica's construction. We realise it's not just stone blocks, like on Toril, or wooden beams - their huge buildings and overhanging towers are possible because this material forms a hidden skeleton within. It occurs to Gnog and Deni that it's very strange and disproportionate that something so crucial to the planet was being made by people paid little, not looked after, doing the best they could with poorly-specified equipment. Why would the city/planet not have made sure its foundries had the best equipment? It's not for lack of money. Feels like racism or class-ism.

It's heading into late afternoon by the time we're heading away - 3:30-4pm. We swing by Izzet Light And Mayhem and knock, hoping that people are home. We're greeted at the door by the mum and invited in. The usual shouts for the boys are made. They emerge from the workshop and we wave. "Got something to show you!" and we head up. We produce the crystal. "The Izzet are consuming these, or at least stockpiling them, in huge numbers" - the mum sees it from the door. "I recognise those!" "Where from?" "Their father! He used to be sent on courier and delivery missions for those." Gnog says, "Yeah, I was afraid of that - they're buying them up again, and they're buying up so much coolant that there's a short of it in the Smelting Quarter which has caused some trouble for factories." Gibo and Bebe say they'll investigate the crystal but they *do* know it's hazardous and unstable. We recommend not doing it at home! They know some abandoned spaces. They say we should come back in a week or so.

As we leave, the mother is walking us down; "Hmmm... What you've told me has me very worried. After their father passed, I was determined not to let the boys get wrapped up in all of the politics and nonsense at Nivix, but I feel like that's a luxury that perhaps I can't have anymore? If things are beginning again, we need to find out what's going on. Maybe when you come back next we should talk about sending the boys back in. I'd feel more comfortable about that if you could with them. I want justice for their father. And I would love it no other families find themselves in a similar position."

Gnog says, "We don't want to put you or them in any danger. We have contacts and it might not come to that, but if they're headed into Nivix after all, they won't go alone."

"You might *need* them to get in at all. If it's like before, security will be tight. It'll be difficult."

On the way out of P6, Gnog swings past Tanned Und Beaten. He greets Mr Beaten, thanks him sincerely for the new outfit which has been excellent and is of great workmanship. A younger half-orc - quarter-orc? - is there too; Gnog asks if there's a relation? It's his son **Will Beaten**. Gnog says hi. Gnog asks for a few tweaks - tighter in "all the right places" - to which Will attends. Gnog estimates he's about 18. It takes longer as he's meticulous and his dad checks work. The last thing is Gnog asks if there's anything that can clip in a weapon holster - loops for a weapon he can reach back and pull out if it's "open-carry" - and we get sort of belt loops that fit with the harness and match style. Will suggests an addition; a belt pouch that would clip between that and the skirt waistband, for extra potions and coins. Yes! Looks good. 5 zino for all the work and parts, including a few bits of upgraded metal hardware where the recent battle showed things might be too weak.

We return to P4 and get to the apartment around 5pm. No new posters or flyers. We get up to our door... Gnog perception 19. We hear mumbling inside the room; there's the sound of movement, someone walking or pacing. Gnog does a 3-2-1 countdown on his fingers and then kicks the door open, bursting into the room. There's a shriek, followed by "Oh my god! Where have you been?!" and - it's Levinia!

We try to fill her in on basics. She suggests an audience with the elders at Vitu Ghazi. We also mention asking anyone on the sentry posts that might've seen the few seconds just before the explosion at Nivix 7 years ago. Levinia fills us in on her learnings too:

* The Voda passed earlier than Levinia thought. Elders had been to see him before she got there, had subsequently denied that they went at all, but animal friends of hers saw them. Why would they deny this; were they the murderers? Did they see it and think a cover-up was needed immediately? We have no idea.

* The Voda was given a very public ceremony; this is very unusual, it's usually kept within the Verdani since he's a dryad spirit within a tree and it'd be kept within their family. The dryads are always allowed to return to the tree, but he was ritually and ceremonially burned in a cremation show. This is very unusual.

* The spirit and soul are usually allowed to re-enter the tree and become one with it. Instead, they're all being moved from the Verdani to other Verdanis. Without the soul of the tree, it will gradually decay. That hasn't happened for over 600 years.

We finally confess, since Levinia is getting past the original shock, about our Orzhov ritual and the discovery that his spirit was destroyed. It explains some of the events above perhaps.

Levinia reveals that she didn't know when we were going to come back so had been waiting *two days* for us to come back (we were, umm, in prison kind of). We apologise and she's going to head home. We'll head there in the morning and wait until she's ready to help us find the elders. She hasn't moved out of her tree yet.

Gnog insight 16; Levinia is being quite guarded. She was reacting quite badly to the things we were saying throughout; Deni later thinks that she's having second thoughts about us being involved because we're very much at odds with their culture. Our methods are potentially disrespectful and insensitive. Possibly selfish? We'll probably have to enquire in the morning.

Deni takes off her boots and sits on the edge of the bed, looking exhausted. Gnog offers to go get food for everyone; Deni doesn't mind coming along; so Taz and Fee-Ree get things ready at the apartment while Gnog and Deni head out to local market shops to pick up a bit of food; we pick up various ingredients worth about 2 Azorious silvers. Staples; herbs, fresh vegetables; we make haste back to the apartment.

Fee-Ree cooks - the first time we've done this in Ravnica. It's a dish from the South, since some of the ingredients we have are analogues; South Ward style food. She has the spices! Food for three-and-a-bit. She brews up some of the Giff tea, which anchors us a bit. It's difficult to slow down once Ravnica has helped you speed up.

As Gnog starts to unwind he gets more in tune again with Deni. She wasn't physically tired - it was mental exertion of being on alert all the time for days. The party has a heart-to-heart; we should slow down, we reconnect somewhat. And it's **really good tea**.

Deni asks if Taz wouldn't mind playing some music. He chuckles and says he'd been hoping for that since we got back! He lays out the new dulcimer and says, he'll just stick to this one for now since it's new. But he'll try some new music. So he sets up the scroll, picking one at random, with the drums alongside just in case. Performance with Built For Success; 19, not top-notch but solid. It relaxes us more. We start sharing stories - reminds me of that time, Taz did we ever tell you, all that. More time bonding as a family.

We're inspired by these bonds, renewing as they are. We'd missed this. No long roadtrips here; no camping together under the stars. This is needed. The apartment starts to feel like a little quiet bubble of "us", where we can be centred. Ironic for Precinct 4!

Perception, Gnog 15, Taz 14 with Built For Success. Gnog sees a note slide under the door. "About slowing down..." he says, and goes to read the note. It says, "Meet me in the stairwell just below the roof". Gnog sighs. "Duty calls, everyone." Due caution called for. We pack anything valuable; Gnog open-carries the greataxe for intimidation in the new attachment on his harness. We get to the stairwell and carry on upstairs. Just before it opens up onto the roof terrace, just inside in a covered area, we see someone sat in the corner with a hood up playing knucklebones with themselves...

Gnog says, "If this is about the library, the book's not due back for another few weeks yet!" The response? "Sit. Join me." - creepy mofo voice. We sit. The bones are rolled. We're handed a few. "I have a message for you..." (Gnog rolls his bones) "...your message was received; acknowledged, you are of interest to them. They do not know if you can be trusted. They do not know why you are here. They do not know what you want or who you work for." Gnog says, "We have no reason to trust the Guild which I suspect you represent either. However, trust has to start somewhere. We will happily meet in a location and a time of your choice, to be questioned however you see fit, using whatever mechanisms you wish to bring to bear to verify veracity in our answers." "You are right to be wary! The information we seek we do not ask permission to gain." Gnog points out that they've already taken some of our thoughts so they must know something about us. All it did is give them these extra questions. Gnog and party recognise they are indeed a wildcard within Ravnica; we don't know our own impact.

They know that we're going to speak with the Gruul. They know the Azorious have seen this too (and we told them directly, too, for that matter). They know that there are moves being made, that we will be courted; a Guild will want us to align with them. The Azorious also don't think our future is written; it means we're even more of a wildcard. It's why the Dimir "inner circle is content to just watch for the moment." But we may be spoken to when we return; if we know more, a meeting may be held.

The knucklebones are about to be packed up. "What did my bones say?" asks Gnog. "It says three, one, three". Gnog says, "that could well be the most accurate fortune telling I've ever witnessed!" "Thank you for your time. Wait for the count of 30 please, before you depart. We will see you after your return. Simply return the book when you're ready to meet."

After a few seconds, "Tea's going cold!" and we head back to the room. Deni likes them. They seem less threatening than the Zhentarim!

Watch that night goes without issue - Fee-Ree, Deni, Gnog and Taz.

(END OF PART 9 - Part 10 next)
