# Gnog: Part 4
## DAY 9 (Riglan 45)

We're at the Torril Spelljammer Academy, with Sehanine's Bow due to depart this morning with Cedric.

We have breakfast and start to depart. Cedric is half way up the gangplank with Morgan when he remembers that he hasn't hugged us, so he runs back and hugs Gnog's leg. We all hug. **Gnog pulls out of his backpack something he spent much of the night working on - it's Cedric's rabbit fur piece.** It works almost like cloak, tied at the front but Cedric adjust it immediately to look more like the way it sits on Gnog. He stands with arms outstretched and Gnog picks him up to hug again. He starts to move up the walkway; Morgan reaches out a hand, so they can walk up hand in hand. Hin-Da-Meh up the top lifts Cedric and puts him on the shoulder as the plank is pulled in and the ship sails out, Morgan, Hin-Da-Meh and Cedric waving and us waving back.

Gnog heaves a sigh, but doesn't have time to be morose - next thing we know, we've been registered and shown to the cadet rooms. Eight to a room, but in our case there are just two others - not kids; a late 30's human (**Remp, from Baldur's Gate**) and younger-looking gnome (**Toby, from the islands of Lantan**), probably, then, in his 50s. They say they're new here - been here around a month. We introduce ourselves (we're new too!). Remp was involved with the war, or at least knew of it; some people that didn't come back.

Toby mentions "the accident" - simulation room - it's closed off now. They don't know much else... They covertly say, they were thinking about slipping past the guards to go and have a look. Gnog says, "Funny that, we had a similar thought..." (the two argue for a moment) - Gnog also says, "there are rumours that there may even sculduggery afoot!" - Remp leans forward and whispers, "one of the officers and one of our instructors got really badly injured but nobody is telling us what happened and nobody can go in to to see them. It all seems very odd." Toby pulls out a spell book and flips through to a spell he says can detect the presence of magic. Gnog asks if it would be a surprise to find magic there, I mean surely, that's the whole room works? But it's a question of the school of magic - the nature of it. Looking for things out of the ordinary. Gnog mentions that he thinks he has some magic dust he was told could make us invisible but he's never tried it. Toby is surprised. If we need it - we can try it.

It's time for everyone to head to class. We agree to meet at mealtime when everyone else is at lunch at the cafe - seems reasonable - in the viewing room above the simulation room. Nobody should be there since there's nothing to watch.

Gnog and Fee-Ree don't have an idea how things work but Deni's done some "studenting" (!) so we follow. She finds a group that seem to be heading to class. There are only about 7 other students. "Air Quality" is the class title. **We learn about "air bubbles" in "Wildspace" and how they merge and get replenished.** This actually seems like fairly important information! People aren't casting spells; there are trinkets that can help generate bubbles but apparently some entities like ships are just large enough to have their own bubble, but the air inside still needs maintenance.

Afterwards, we head to the common room. About 13 students are gathered, some chatting, some playing games and two arm-wrestling. A green-skinned woman sits at a table making dancing lights. We hang around and listen in for a while. Perception only 12. Gnog notices that Deni is missing. He turns to Fee-Ree and says, "yep, even here. It's happened again." We find her playing games with some of the younger students. About ten minutes later she comes back - "The sabotage is all that anyone's talking about" - it's all wild rumours; some think it's an accident, some not. None of them sounded too convincing though.

Gnog wants to talk to the green lady. He realises that she's a Dryad. "Hello! I'm Gnog!" She's **Sylvia**. Her group have been here a bit longer, from the winter student intake. She didn't realise there was a mid-summer enrolment - the table is a bit sceptical of Gnog's explanation about enrolment and the mention of Mert, when asked about a sponsor, almost causes hostility until Gnog explains that it wasn't that we're special, it's more just luck. They say that **Ton** (one of the arm-wrestlers) is just lucky too, but seem salty about it - **Miken** in particular (one of the guys in the group of three).

Gnog sits down and gets a level gaze with Miken sand says, "Come on, dish the dirt. That's what makes all of this school stuff interesting, after all." Miken just explains that Ton just always seems to have things go his way - "blessed" as he puts it. A bit of an awkward conversation; Miken is quite downbeat and that just seems to be his way. There doesn't seem anything particularly untoward about Ton.

Conversation changes to new people. The last intake was about a month ago, with 8 people arriving - of which Remp and Toby, we already know. We spend some time before lunch getting to learn more - Gnog, investigation 17 - and end up knowing the names of the other six, who are in orientation class. We also get hold of a timetable of classes, but find out that all 8 newest arrivals *only* do orientation class to start with, as a mandatory first step.

As people start to head off for lunch, we make our way to the viewing room to meet Remp and Toby. We learn that chevrons on walls in the red sector always point to the cafe, so that helps us have some idea of which direction we're headed. Several students notice us going "the wrong way". We get to the observation floor and a couple of officers stop us. Gnog tries to blag that we want to see how the rooms work - deception 2+2! The officers instead take us into one of the two rooms that are currently operating.

We try to use this slight misfortune as a way to examine a room close-up when it has *not* been tampered with - we hope! Gnog, perception only 14. The various runes and sigils around the room are alien to him. Fee-Ree (arcana check 22) recognises these as representing embedded spells in the walls; the room is a channeling conduit for various kinds of illusion and transmutation. So, "real" objects can be created here, in some form or other. The officers are even good enough to show a brief, demonstration simulation. It's fully immersive. We thank them and say we'd probably better be heading to lunch and, with little other choice, that's what we do.

Con check, Gnog - only 11 - feels a bit hungry, however the students are all packing lunch trays up and are already starting to filter out of the room. It's surprising, a very short lunch break! Gnog spots one of the people they'd seen on their way out who'd reminded them about it being lunchtime and deliberately interacts to "show" we're here. They like to go to the common room for a bit, so we head along with them. It's busy. We have an opportunity to see some of the new 6, that are all younger and in a group together. We see it's cliquey to a degree. We head over and introduce ourselves, asking how they're getting on with orientation classes. They're shy and polite, moving some chairs around to give us space, telling us about the three main streams - magic users potentially pilots; fixers/dextrous types as perhaps engineers; others trained in combat. They're about half way through the process.

One says, "Where are Toby and Remp? They dipped out after class and I didn't see them at lunch"... One goes to find them at the lunch room, and to our surprise he returns with them both. Gnog: Perception only 13; they sit. As they start to get drawn into conversation, insight 16, they don't seem to be in a sad, angry or whatever mood. A while later, people head off to class.

We're a bit stuck. Deni has some ideas; we know we should try and find people who were in the room, it's about info that Mert and co can't get themselves, so gossip and students. To keep our cover, we realise we should attend class, but since we've already had to give excuses for why we're *not* in Orientation, we go to a regular class.

The class we attend next is "**Wildspace**". The instructor is one of those kind of humanoid water-elemental-kind of blobs. A mouth and windpipe forms which allows for a very airy, breathy voice. "Right. Wildspace. So. Who can tell me - what's the difference between Wildspace and the Astral Sea?" A student suggests it's the area around worlds of the Material Plane, while the Astral Sea is the area beyond Wildspace; Astral Sea connects Wildspace Areas together. Travelling between worlds - Wildspace. When you get past the "edges of a system", you cross "over the barrier" into the Astral Sea itself. We're asked to discuss more in groups. We see Miken sitting alone and join him asking if it's OK if we team up as he knows way more than we do. We learn that one thought is that the Sea is the space between planes; Miken says another theory is that it's *all* the Astral Sea with the planes (and Wildspace) mixed - "floating" - within it. Miken also gets more salty; he's from Torril, the "diversity hire", they want wizards not wild magicians (hey, same as Fee-Ree) and they want to show that the Academy is there for Torril but he's sure he'll never get a commission... And then we're interrupted.

The "answer" is that either theory is connect; pockets of the material planes, surrounded by the astral sea; or the astral sea as a plane, intersected by the material plane. Since we can't exist in both at the same time, we can only transition between them and never tell if one is either intersected with, or contained by, another.

We learn something more interesting - Wildspace has no breathable air. But you can breathe in the Astral Sea without air bubbles. But technically there's no breathable air there either; we don't asphixiate because the laws of magic are different there and we simply **do not need to breathe**. All living functions pause. **Nobody ages**! Gnog looks at Fee-Ree - insight 14 - she's dealing with a conflict at that information. Deni is writing it down furiously. She raises her hand. "How do we survive in Wildspace, then, if we need to breathe and there's no breathable air?" - the instructor explains air bubbles, which we know, but Deni refines her question - how do you prepare for the transition from no bubble in the Astral Sea, to needing a bubble in Wildspace? Since bubbles exist around Spelljamming helms (and other large objects like planets, but the large objects rarely transition to the Astral Sea), the air bubble is up anyway. There *is* an interface - **the Astral Sea is like swimming in thin silvery milk; Wildspace is black but also very colourful, purples and golds and other colours**. That's where almost everyone lives - whereas most - if not all - of the Astral Sea is unpopulated. He mentions the theory that our inability to figure out the interaction between Astral Sea and Wildspace is because it's not a 3D space as we perceive it; the fact you can navigate by thought is a potential indicator of it.

Next, workshops and practicals. People head to the simulation floor. We head up. We get told by the officers that we should probably watch from the observation deck, rather than being dumped into the middle of it!

We head up. The 8 newest arrivals go to one room, 8 who are closest to graduation go to another, and we find ourselves in a room with 8 others including Ton, Miken, Sylvia, Lisa (the Hermione of the group) and Jared (who'd been arguing with her in class about breathable air) and co - the in-betweeners. Ton, Lisa and Jared watch the seniors, Sylvia talks to a friend called Meg, while Miken ignores the room and two others go to watch the juniors. We stick with the 8 seniors as they're more unfamiliar to us. A big squid-like ship with giant sails is being approached by two of the insect-like ships. There is an explosion that rocks the deck and emerging out of the darkness is a large galleon of sorts, firing canons.

Gnog goes to Miken - "not interested in fights?" - and learns that it's bad memories - this was the group of 8 that were in the accident room. He recounts it, but some way through, Meg cuts in, disagreeing that it was a "faulty" illusion causing hurt - she says it must be sabotage. There was an explosion, too, which she says wasn't a simulation, it was *in* the simulator. Miken says we don't know that and says that nobody *actually* got hurt, but Ton disagrees - the instructor and officer, he says, were injured. Then he claims that he was too - he shows a burn on his arm that's healing but not fully healed. He claims sabotage too.

Things get heated and Miken leaves the room. Gnog chases after him, Fee-Ree and Deni staying behind to not arouse suspicion. Gnog falls into step with him. We end up a lift that Gnog gets up to the top observation platform. Perception: 17. Miken likes the place and the technology. At the top, he's clearly still impressed; awed at what's available and possible here. The conversation is quite varied and deep, about sharing technology, control, why Miken was invited (by Mert no less), he's "a nobody"; Miken doesn't trust really Mert - knows about the theft at Waterdeep - but he's keeping something back (Insight 11) that Gnog can't figure out.

We all end up back at the common room. An autognome appears and starts handing packages out to the students. Everyone gets one except for the 8 youngest. Miken doesn't get one, right up until there's one last box, but the autognome is starting to leave; Miken asks if that's his, but it's for "the old wolf". Miken looks despondent and resigned - he didn't get anything. Everyone else opens their boxes; gifts from the Rock of Bral, congratulating them on doing well in their semester. There's discussion about them being from "Prince Andrew Himself" and there's some to-and-fro. Gnog, as one Torril cadet to another, tries to gift Miken a Potion Of Heroism - a better gift - but Miken refuses, saying that *if* he is to do well here, not that he thinks he will (!), he'll do it on his own merits. Gnog notes how much that says about him.

The next class is cancelled as it was from the injured instructor! People have a "free" period, so some go off to swim, others play games and so-on.

Toby makes signs with his hands behind his back (Gnog, Perception 22) and Gnog realises that he'd been doing that before, when coming in from lunch. Gnog announces loudly that he clearly doesn't know enough and needs to go to the room for study. Fee-Ree and Deni excuse themselves and come along. Remp and Toby soon join us. Gnog apologises for not meeting them but they had bumped into a bunch of people; they'd heard us get rumbled. Remp shows us he has thieves tools - Gnog has a Chime Of Opening but it's loud. We need to be close before Dust Of Disappearance - apparently there's a bathroom near the simulation room. We get there, cram in and Gnog uses the dust. We are briefly invisible!

We sneak from the bathroom to the simulator room. Remp is going to try and unlock it when Deni just pushes it open! We move around security banners (some kind of strange tape, Gnog doesn't know what it's made of) and get inside. Fee-Ree casts Light and Gnog uses his gem.

It's immediately apparent that the explosion was real. The blast was from one of 6 conduit crystals from which the illusions manifest (we know this from our earlier "tour!"). Toby starts to read his scroll. Gnog perception 18 (with luck), Deni investigation 22, Fee-Ree arcana only 16. Gnog additional investigation only 14 (also with luck!); but can use insight as a result; nat 20 -> 22. Toby says he sees magic, illusion and transmutation as expected; but weird; **very strong conjuration magic around the blast area**, not evocation as he would expect. He picks up a shard off the ground, that he found hidden under rubble. It's tiny; "this is part of one of the illusion crystals; it's definitely been modified; we need to give this to someone from the school, this is evidence!" Gnog asks to hang onto it; Toby agrees - "but just don't get us into trouble!". Our group (based on rolls and what Thom and Jared had said about what happened that day) surmises that there was probably some kind of actual problem, something went wrong during the rescue attempt they'd mentioned, causing the illusions to injure people. This is why officers and instructors came in, but then there was the huge explosion. **So the explosion was real and cleverly timed, perhaps; so someone was going for the officers.** They caused a malfunction which was enough to lure them into the room, then blew up the crystal. Just blowing up the *students* wouldn't necessarily have been enough. They were possibly not even trying injure the students but the students had been a bit off-plan in their intended original scenario (Miken had said that things hadn't gone well) had ended up in a one-boat-rescues-other situation which perhaps the planned malfunction didn't anticipate and thus did cause injury. We think that part was accidental.

That evening, people go for food and we seek an audience with Mert. He's given us instructions on how to do that. While people are eating, it's quieter in the corridors so we go up before eating ourselves. We arrive up at Mert's level - but there is a big commotion. Guards are stationed outside, "state your business" - there's been some kind of incident. Bosun Tarto overhears us, recognising the voice and calls us in - "just don't touch anything!" says a guard. Guards and security officers are cleaning up a mess - carapaces - dead bodies! - huge spider-like creatures, the same thing we saw in the simulator. *In* Mert's offices! How did they get in?! And we see the big box that the autognome had, lid open.

Mert is there waving people away, catching his breath. Gnog runs up with healing potion, but someone is already helping him. "In view of what we just saw" says Gnog, "now is a VERY good time for a chat! Know anywhere safer than - uuuh - your office?!" and Mert agrees to lead us out, Tarto coming along too, finding a private meeting room.

We explain about the gifts, and how the box was with those, all from the Rock Of Bral - so what ship brought it? We give Tarto the shard. He takes it for analysis, they hadn't found any before. Mert gets on a sending stone to lock down the dock and find out who brought in the gifts. He yells outside to be brought the "empty" box. There are small eggshells inside - it seems these strange spiders grow *very* quickly. It's from the Mercanes, from Vocath. They're Neogi eggs - a scourge in the space lanes; vicious, they plant eggs in living beings and burst out of them. It's illegal in dozens of systems to trade these. If these things had got loose, it would've closed down the academy outright.

* Is someone trying to shut down the academy because they hate it?
* Is someone trying to shut it down because it is important and might stand in their way for some future action they intend to undertake?
* Is someone trying to do things that not only shut down the academy, but also cause the academy to reveal itself - step in to deal with the released creatures, in the open. But that would have to be someone from Torril.

The identification completes. The shard is from off-world. Very advanced tampering! Well beyond any student. How did it get in? And who planted it in the simulator? Was this a question of "sending a message"?

We hear back from the dock. The ship that dropped the crates off left only half an hour later. Mert wants to know who it was! Tarto also wants to know any movement of deliveries between the sky dock and a cadet known as Miken over the next month. Gnog feels bad as he might've got Miken into trouble by mentioning that only himself and Miken seemed to think that maybe some of this magic / technology should be shared.

We head back down and get food. There's some light ale and people head up to see the sunset, but the dock is locked down so we aren't allowed up. Gnog, persuasion 21 - during this time he talks to Miken. He lays it all out, all the things he's discovered and the things that have been discovered. Miken says he didn't think it would go this far - he breaks down and confesses... Vocath sent the stone and told him to swap it in the simulator. The idea was to make it impossible to continue to deny to Torril that the academy existed; speed along the development of Torril using Spelljammer technology. Apparently, Vocath wrote to Miken to start this off; he still has the letters. One letter says that "We will know if you've been compromised and we will send in a mighty force and take you off world before anything can happen to you!" - we take this to Mert and Tarto. Miken is now afraid that he might need protection from the same people he was trying to harm... But we're all on the same page - Miken was being manipulated.

Tarto, out of nowhere, pulls out a blue pin and hands it to Miken. "I formally declare you graduated! We're getting you off-world - *tonight*. You'll take my ship to the Rock Of Bral and we'll place you under the diplomatic protection of Prince Andrew so no harm will befall you. Do you have family we should keep an eye on for protection, too?" Miken asks just that the House Of The Weeping - church of Ilmata, where he grew up - is watched. It's an orphanage. Mert says they'll be helped. He turns to the three of us - **"want to pack your things? We've found you a ride to the Rock of Bral!"**

We hurriedly pack. Mert gives us permission to let the students know what we'd been up to - it'll be hard to hide Miken's departure - but framed that the "bad guys" were using Miken's packages as cover for the sabotage implements, so he's at risk and now needs protection. We're not telling people that Miken was duped into helping.

So, we say goodbye to the various people we've met, assure them now that things should be much more safe and simple in the academy for their tenure and head out via the registration area, **where our red badges are swapped for blue, giving us access to the Sky Dock** - we proceed there immediately.

Bosun Tarto comes with us and on the way (Gnog insight 18) is hurriedly rattling off lists of things we need to do; he seems nervous, excitable, and this is how he centres himself - sort of just listing things out, that seems to be his thing. He's checking and counting things off written lists at the dock too. Gnog enquires - since Tarto must have been on many voyages - why the flurry of activity; it seems that this is a short-notice departure with a lot to prepare on the ship which isn't actually ready to go.

We do whatever we can to follow instructions. Miken appears, led by one of the Giff. He looks downtrodden, though he also wears a blue pin. Gnog greets him warmly and says, "in a strange way we've you to thank for this - we didn't know how we'd ever be able to get off world and you've provided a route" "I guess I'm done for?" Gnog tries to be encouraging - persuasion 17+7 - reminding him what Mert and Tarto said; he was manipulated; Mert chose him from an orphanage of all places; etc. - the veil of gloom lifts a little. The first glimmers of excitement show - and - "I guess I get to go to Wildspace before Ton does...!"

Gnog mentions that Miken knows more about this than us and asks him to be our advisor in matters of the voyage. Miken perks up more. He asks us what we brought - just our normal stuff! - and Miken asks Tarto if we have "suits" on the suit. Tarto says yes, but strides off to fetch the box of them from elsewhere. He comes back with many, trying to size us all up; it takes a while to get one that will fit Gnog. Gnog sees that this has a name tag - it was Ragnulf's! - but Tarto pulls off the tag and replaces it. He gives us the suit. Apparently they're used in emergencies in case the air bubble should fail. We all end up with one.

We're told to go to introduce ourselves to the Captain. We proceed along the docks and get our first clear view of the ship.

It's quite small. We approach from the stern initially. It seems to be made of metal and sturdy; it's one of the insectoid designs. Getting onboard is unusual - there's a set of metal steps mounted on wheels pushed up against the hull, that leads to an opening in what would be the "mouth" if it were a creature. A reminds Gnog of a giant fly, supporting legs sprouting out the front to stop it tipping as it rests on dry dock on its keel. We approach and Miken shouts, 
"Permission to come aboard! **Cadet Haverstance**" (so that's his surname) - a female voice shouts, "No cadets on my ship! You're not a cadet!" - and Miken corrects - "...Uuuh... Private? Private Haverstance?" 

A human woman emerges and walks down the stairs to meet us on the dock floor. She looks like she's wearing a kind of boxy, beige, austere military uniform. Her hair is tied back with a thick bright blue band wrapping around her forehead like a headband tied at the back. She looks middle-aged; mid to late 40s; and quite tough!

She comes forward, puts a hand on Miken's shoulder. "You all right?" "Yes Sir. M'am. Sir..." "Look, relax!" - and so it goes on. She reminds us that this is *not* a military vessel, it's Mert's private craft and it's not so formal. The mission is to get Miken safely to the Rock Of Bral. She turns to us. "This is a very honoured ship. It's the fastest ship docked here at the moment so we should be able to avoid any trouble from pursuers along the way." We are reminded of the chain of command (and we're familiar with that from Sehanine's Bow). There are just two of them, so 6 in total - and too many supplies! Tarto loads too much when he's nervous. The ship is the **Moondancer** which can carry up to 9.

Gnog asks, "Apologies, Captain, my name is Gnog; this is Deni and Fee-Ree; we don't know your name I'm afraid...?" "Oh! I'm **Elaina Sartell** and you'll get to meet our pilot shortly, **Flapjack**. Flapjack doesn't leave their seat." She asks if we're handy with weapons - especially ballistae. Ship-to-ship combat is at range, 1000ft or so; ranged spells are close range, at which point we'd be in trouble! There's a ballista on the forward deck and mangonel at the top deck. We're given permission to board. We go up the stairs, and walk into the forward deck - small deck, only 20ft by maybe 12ft. Gnog is surprised to see that the ballista hangs from the ceiling. She explains that the curving floor and windows around are the ceiling! We're on Torril; the ship is upside down on the ground? Not quite. She opens a hatch in the "ceiling" and pulls up. Inside there it's the "right way" up. There's a sign on the door - "Beware, gravity plane". We realise that at some point - and we're told we'll feel the shift - gravity changes and the hatchway changes up to down and down to up as we move through it.

On this main deck through the hatch has, directly in front of us, a strange bucket seat chair. It's very ornate with feathers coming off in all directions. It spins around and hovering above it, wearing a huge elongated front-to-back arched captain's hat with more feathers, is a quizzical looking jellyfish! Its two eyes are on stalks. We don't hear, but *feel* the motion of a friendly greeting and a concept that **this is Flapjack**. Gnog thinks back "Thank you, I'm Gnog, do you prefer that we think or speak?" A spectral mage hand appears which Gnog shakes. Various illusions appear which we can all see, which are its way of speaking. **(It's a flumpf).**

Elaina shows us to our quarters. It's through a hatch. The room we're led to is again 20ft long front-back with a door on either side of the hatch, and we have to shuffle around for it to be closed. Her room is on one side of the corridor, ours on the other. It might be a bit tight so we're told we can set up bedding and a hammock in the front part of the cargo hold if we prefer. We look inside, at a 7ft wide by 15ft long room. Gnog suggests Miken might like the room and we'll be happy down in the cargo deck, since Gnog would fill the room more or less by himself! It's a cool space though, a kind of pod shape on the side of the ship.

We leave Miken to it, and head to the cargo area to roll out some mats and get ourselves a bit of space each. We can actually fit the bed rolls side by side, so it's pretty comfortable.

A few minutes later, Elaina reminds us to make sure that things are secured (strapped down) and asks us to come up to the helm. We can see the mangonel as we head up out of the cargo deck to the top deck, before going back down to the helm - Flapjack's seat. Through the glass we see that Mert is standing on the dock with a security guard and Saerthe. We see Elaina go down the stairs to greet him and Gnog follows, curious; Mert says, "Sorry it's such a rush but we thought it most prudent to get you off-world as soon as possible!" (and suchlike). **He gives Gnog a tied, rolled-up scroll.** "Elaina will get you safely to the Rock Of Bral - no detours or stopping! - but Elaina and Flapjack can't leave the ship behind, so I'm counting on *you* to safely get Miken to people who can protect Miken, on the Rock Of Bral. **This is an official letter from the Academy that places him under the protection of our organisation, which is funded by Prince Andrew and has been since he took power.** This has not been pre-arranged, so you might have to get creative! Good luck. Thank you for all your help. We'll clean things up here!" and Saerthe adds, "I hope you find someone who can give you the answers that you seek". The security guy chips in! "Just remember, when you're on the Rock of Bral - it's not a lawless place but it pays to keep your wits about you because the enforcement of the law is a voluntary thing" Mert adds, lastly, "Don't forget to keep your mind open while you remain cautious out there. I think you'll find that there's much to be awed by and many wonders to see. It would be a pity if you didn't allow yourself to experience them the way someone should when they leave their world for the first time."

We get back on board. People withdraw, the steps are taken away and so-on; a few final checks happen; Miken is helping Elaina shut and re-check all hatches; windows are checked to ensure no obstacles outside; then finally Flapjack activates his chair. It floats forward into the glass viewing area and his eyestalks fold in a bit like a snail's. There's a vibration and whirring sound as wings unfurl either side and start to flutter. The ship starts to rise off the ground, the legs fold in and the ship moves forward into open space and we see a viewing gallery set into the side of the "chimney" and can see Mert and co. watching from there now. The captain salutes and they salute back, then ship lurches abruptly upwards as the wings gain speed very rapidly.

We shoot up into the twilight sky, just a sliver of light on the horizon and the sky above a deep indigo. We see, now from above, the upright moonbeam lights indicating the way - we can see them for at least half a mile up. We're told to hold on tight as the ship lurches even faster, at an upwards angle, gaining speed for several minutes. Gnog con save 17, Deni only 10, Fee-Ree 19. Deni starts to feel a bit nauseous! Miken is a funny colour too. "We're nearly there!" says Elaina and after about a minute more of acceleration we feel a shift. The ship hasn't changed angle, but now we feel "upright" (as a gentle rolling feeling, rather than a sudden alteration).

It's now completely dark outside, but not the dark we're used to. We feel a little light (the gravity isn't as strong as Torril). We see some swirls of colour; purples and blues - we remember the lecture where we were told the colours of Wildspace. It's dark, but it's not black and there is a luminescence to the colours we can see, which are in patches.

That's it - we're cruising now. Elaina says we're free to do as we wish, but if we cross the gravity plane we're reminded to be very careful and use the handholds. She strongly advises that if we hang out on the top deck to wear the suits we were given, "Just in case". If we got hit with a lot of force or if there was an emergency manoeuvre, we might get thrown physically off the deck and out of the air bubble.

Deni suggests she and Gnog examine the ballista and mangonel more closely, for better preparedness. We wear suits for the mangonel as advised; we get a clear and quite breathtaking view of Wildspace up there. Gnog adv. investigation total 18. There are huge stones netted down around the mangonel that would need loading into its scoop, which even with Gnog's strength would take a lot of effort, then it needs cranking back after each load against a metal spring. Its rotation for aim is done by someone beneath, rotating via a stem with handles. A lever is pulled to fire it. Quite a performance (in game terms, 4 actions required). That's the price of range. The ballista - the gravity shift is "hilarious" to deal with - is a familiar design; load a bolt, crank it, aim and fire all on the same deck. The bolts are lighter. It's easier, but can only shoot forwards in a certain arc while the mangonel goes around 360 degrees. Gnog asks Elaina if the rock follows an arc or travels straight - as suspected, within the ship gravity plane (source or destination) it gets deflected, but travels straight between them. Annoying it releases within the ship's gravity so there's a deflection. Apparently there are markings and drawings on the steering column to aid with aim up and down as well as around. It needs a smart person to do the aiming, someone strong to do the loading and some quick to do the cranking.

The giff suit it turns out is a decent fit on Gnog. He's hippo-shaped, evidently!

We learn that the ship's air bubble is quite big and with only 6 aboard should last around 20 days; the trip to the Rock Of Bral should take about 2 days.

Later, in the distance, out back to our sun, silhouetted against a brighter area of space appears to be a few specks moving across. Only Gnog can really see it and he asks Elaina; she takes out a spyglass. Even then it's hard to see but she thinks it's a pod of Kindori, a kind of huge creature, a bit like the whales Gnog had heard about in Waterdeep. We're heading in that direction and we get close enough that Gnog can see these huge creatures quite clearly; he can't get a good sense of scale but Elaina says they're bigger than the ship. The others have to borrow the spyglass to see them.

Gnog (D100: 61) notices that around us, there seem to be bats, flying around the ship; three of them, but they're big - about the size of a human child. Gnog asks, "Are those giant bats?" Elaina has a look. They're Wildspace versions of Stirges (the bad bats!) which don't need to breathe. They generally don't attack unless someone's by themselves. "Don't let them harass you!" she says and shoots a crossbow at one, not intending to hit but intending to dissuade. They're within the air bubble. She shoots again and they start to fly off.

We're not sure what time it is - Miken comes up and does point out that there's no "day" or "night". Gnog keeps looking back to the sun now and then, but it's no help as it's not hanging in the sky and is very bright out here in the dark. We're advised to keep to a schedule, so we guess at nighttime and head to bed.

As everyone heads down, Gnog - still in his suit - nips up to the top deck and turns back to see if he can spot Torril. He turns away from it to the open space, closes his eyes - people always seem to do that when praying! - and thinks to himself, "Garren, I don't know what you'd make of this - in terms of religion and gods; you're across many material plans now anyway so perhaps it would be old-hat. But just in case it's not, I hope you're watching and enjoying the view." (Perception adv: 18).

He opens his eyes. Hovering in front of him, is a tinby teal/blue-green coloured humanoid with a head that looks like a clump of blue seaweed, holding a long fishing rod with a bobble attached to the end, riding a big goldfish with six silvery eyes. Both creatures together are only about the size of a football. He notices then that there are three others, in different colours - he realises that they seem to be like elementals; one is fire-like, one has a cloud head, one is made of rock; they each ride a different "space goldfish". Weird.

They're watching Gnog. Two hold net-like things, the one near Gnog has the fishing rod with a bobble that seems to be attracting really tiny little fish to it and the last is holding some kind of large canvas with a paintbrush. We seem to have just sailed into their area. Gnog wonders for a moment - "Garren?" - and one swims right up to him - then swims away, followed by the others. They stay at a distance, observing. Gnog shouts, "What are you painting?" - that one swims closer and flips the canvas around. It is a weird painting that looks like a wheel of cheese with six legs. "Sentient cheese!" exclaims Gnog. "I love it!" It stows the canvas somehow in its tiny pocket - a bag of holding? - pulls out another big one and starts frantically painting. The other three watch. The tiny fish nibble at the fishing bobble, apparently forgotten. A couple of minutes of frantic painting later and the canvas is flipped; it's a strangely proportioned painting of Gnog looking puzzled standing on the deck. Gnog says, "I'm honoured! Nobody's ever painted me before!" - and it flicks the canvas towards him. Gnog is able to grab it. He says "thank you, this is amazing!" Perception: 13. One has a net bag containing a button, bit of lint and what seems to be the end of someone's finger!

Gnog has the decorative pins from the dragon cult. There are four. Perfect! He hands them out and they wield them like shields. They line up in front holding them. Gnog salutes. One comes over and hesitantly touches Gnog's forehead, then quickly swims away! Gnog realises that he's been bestowed a gift. He has a **charm of air bubbles** allowing him to cast Air Bubble up to three times. Gnog thanks them again and wishes them a pleasant time fishing. They head off. Gnog goes down to cargo area to show it to Deni and Fee-Ree.

We go to sleep. Just before he drifts off to sleep, Gnog senses a familiar presence, the incorporeal sense of Garren that seems to be telling him - "well done; you're one step closer to the person I'm trying to get you..."



## DAY 10 (Riglan 46)

In the "morning" Gnog quietly tells Fee-Ree and Deni about this possible dream about Garren and what he hopes it means. Deni is coughing a lot. The air is strangely dry and it's bothering her. Gnog's just happy that it's surprisingly cool, not overheated or anything. Fee-Ree and Deni feel a bit cold.

In this day we pass by the kindori much closer. One of them has a hut built on top of it! Someone is outside that stands up - looks like druid, holding a crook. He or she waves and we wave back.

Gnog reads some of "End Of The First Empire - An Account Of The Crown Wars", which he finds in the bag of holding - light reading?! - our other books given away or at the Goliath Drinks library. He makes surprisingly good progress. Deni is all questions for Elaina and looking around every aspect of the ship. Fee-Ree was going to speak to Flapjack but they are dead to the world - it seems the ship is their familiar, and they are looking through it.

At lunch time, Elaina brings a big mason jar with a straw. Deni asks if Flapjack needs to eat. Apparently, all we need to do is be near him and be in good spirits; flumpfs feed of psychic energy. That's easily done. Gnog says we should take our food to the area behind the pilot's chair and once there the three of us start to reminisce, telling the happier stories of the last year, people we've met and so-on. Miken listens closely, finally hearing what we used to actually do.

In the evening, at the final meal of the day, Elaina says we'll be at the Rock tomorrow in around mid-morning. Their morning isn't at the same time as ours - Gnog is familiar, from the time we flew rapidly West for the dragon council - but the shift is larger than we're used to; it'll be early evening for them. The city on the Rock is only maybe 1 mile long by 1/2 a mile wide, but quite crowded, but OK if we're used to Waterdeep or Baldur's Gate (with it having more of the latter vibe than the former). She fetches a huge canvas map and while we can't have it, we can borrow and study it this evening. Gnog does his best to sketch some of it. "Library Of The Spheres" catches his eye and Elaina says that this is where we should take our shard - the Galactic Archive.



## DAY 11 (Riglan 47)

Deni wakes us up early, as she has emptied out her Handy Haversack onto the cargo deck and is rattling through it sorting things and putting some back in piles. She says she's looking for a book or a journal that she had. She's also wearing her Boots and Cloak Of Elvenkind. Finally, she manages to locate the journal with Fee-Ree's help and stows the rest away in the bag.

She certainly seems quite excited.

We're trying to figure out where to take Miken. The question of what's on the scroll comes up. Deni studies it and figures she can retie the bow just as it was - she unties it and reads. It says that Miken is officially a ward of Torril Spacejammer Academy whose life is in danger. Mert has therefore placed his authority to grant safe passage and protection to Miken. There's then some legal-sounding jargon that talks about "protective custody of the current rule of the Rock Of Bral, Prince Andrew, as Patron Of The Academy". So if we know where to go, this is kind of our papers to be let through. We're told that "Starhaven" on our map is the palace. 

We're discussing options for getting there when the ship slows down unexpectedly and quickly. The flumpf has disconnected from the ship; they turn around and starts to create illusions indicating some kind of alert. Some kind of strange ship or rock or something has got in the way and we need to see what it is.

We put on our suits and run up to the top deck. Around 2000ft away is some kind of huge nautilus like creature or ship. Gnog (perception only 10) can't figure it out, but Elaina jumps when she sees it. Gnog says, "What?!" - she's alarmed, but then calms down, observes it longer, then seems to relax. She opens the hatch and yells down, "Flapjack! Bring us around it - I have a feeling about something but *don't* approach it". As we come around we're able to see that it is, in fact, a big ship, much larger than ours - but there's a huge hole blown in the side, debris drifting. It's a *good* thing says Elaina - it's a Nautiloid. A mindflayer ship. Those are what Morgan was chasing. This one has, thankfully, been destroyed. If we ever see something like this normally, we should never approach it; they have very valuable salvage, such as "Starjammer helms". Ships that seem to be abandoned like this are probably already occupied by - and Elaina lists all kinds of nasty sounding creatures, plus - uuuh - Space Clowns... The ship moves back around to get back on course and we come back down below deck. We speed up and within an hour, we're approaching the huge Rock of Bral - a mile long, half-mile wide rounded asteroid, which is also about half a mile thick but the "top and bottom" are flattened out. The "bottom" side has just a few specks of light, which we surmise are the fields, garrison etc. that Elaina told us were present. The sides taper in rock with nothing built.

Light hits the top part obliquely which has some terrain relief, one end higher than the other in concept, hence "high" and "low city". Elaina says that the lighting is an affectation of day and night, caused, we're told, by the manually controlled rotation of the rock. The lake is clearly visible and beautiful, with sapphire blue water, beautiful estates and a white, silver, blue and gold palace - Starhaven. It seems specifically designed to look "fairy tale".

About a mile out, we sense a shift in gravity and we start to smell different things; we realise we're in the air bubble of the rock. Our ship deploys wings and we hear the vibrations, a sudden noise of the quiet of Wildspace. We notice two small craft headed our way but as they get closer we realise it's two humans wearing backpacks with mechanical wings, wearing air suits! Not as efficient as Fee-Ree's "fly" spell... They hold up big orange paddles which Elaina says are telling us to halt. She lowers herself down the hatch, at which we realise that our gravity plane isn't active anymore; both air and gravity relate to the surface of the Rock of Bral.

One of these two guards comes up, asking why we're flying around the side. We're asked for papers, so Gnog shows the scroll. Initially the guard is unconvinced. Fee-Ree tries a more aggressive tactic, arguing that the prince would be very angry if Miken is hurt; her intimidation roll is over 20, so they allow us through. They do remind us not to fly *over* the city, but to keep around the edges on this side, not on the "underside".

On the way Gnog thinks he sees the Arena of Frun and the Library, but perception 12, not much else. It's quite a long way away and the lighting is oblique. He gets a good sense of the different districts of the city though, as they're very distinct both due to sudden changes in elevation and styles of building. We fly slow and match rotation of the rock, so it takes almost half an hour to reach eventually the Starhaven dock and by then, it is dark.

Elaina tells us to strap in. She thinks she knows where the dock will be but hasn't been there before and is wary of attack necessitating sudden movement to avoid. We fly into towards the asteroid and promptly two ships rise from the edge of the palace and come to meet us with weapons armed. We halt.

Gnog, Miken and Elaina head to the top deck to talk. One patrol ship is telling us that we *must* turn back to the main docks. Gnog tries to show the scroll and ask them for permission to proceed, so persuasion disadv. only 10. Insight 19, they are sympathetic but have no authority to change the rules to let us in. Well, it was worth a shot and it looks like we're just going to have to risk the main docks. So, we have to withdraw, flying West along the Northern edge to the normal docks and hope we get through without attack from there.

We clearly see the "thick" end of the lake and its deep blue colours, the graveyard and beautiful towers of the temple district. Clinging onto the side and built *into* the asteroid is the dwarven district. Gnog sees The Burrows more clearly; a "cute", low-lying area with many small bushes, pastoral, rows of single-storey shop houses. Halflings, maybe?

(D8->1 to choose dock) On main dock approach we're quickly called into a pier very near the Northern edge, one dock ring down from the Northernmost section. We pull in on the edge, facing North-West. Metal arms extend and clamp onto the ship. There's some bureaucracy and docking fees; Elaina says she doesn't feel right just leaving us here so we agree they'll stay 48 hours. They don't want crew wages or similar, but Gnog pays 2gp for the docking fees.

We collect all our gear and disembark. Miken looks trepidatious. Gnog shows Miken all the weapons in Fee-Ree's bag and reminds him that he's well protected and should try to have fun if possible, overwhelming though it all is; Elaina warns us not to open-carry in the high city, but we can elsewhere. Gnog decides to carry his Greataxe, less powerful perhaps than some other options but there are Dwarves here and you never know who might be helpful. Once we get off the ship, Miken seems a bit unsure still and puts his hands in his pockets. **Deni hands him a dagger** and that seems to make him feel a bit more confident!

Elaina and Flapjack say that if we need to find them, the first place to look is the Happy Beholder. Good! Gnog was planning on going there. 

Going past Gifftown, we learn they used to have an empire. This is more like a tourist zone with shops about the Giff empire memorabelia. We also see some in a shooting range competition - hand-held canons! Very scary. Gnog decides to go to a book shop "Gifftown Tomes And More" to get a book about the Giff, but we find two - one book about tea and another about the Giff empire history - "The Leaf That Fuelled An Empire" and "When Giff Brought Guns To the Galaxy". These books are very strange - many colour plates and *not written* - they seem to be pressed, somehow, with extraordinary precision from letter to letter. The books come in a bag with bookmarks and postcards thrown in - very touristy.

We carry on, angling towards the mages guildhall. The rise up from low to mid city is pretty easy to find. Survival adv. (from written notes off Elaina's map) 19. The mage's guildhall is a huge tower. The middle city is less lively; more residences and quieter, fewer shops. At the temple district, there are no gates; a street rises into a terraced / stepped large courtyard. Since this looks like it steps into the high city, Gnog stows his axe.

Gnog's curiosity draws him into the temple district proper. Four large buildings are easily visible from the courtyard area with many more beyond; almost 20, perhaps. It would take a long time to figure out the deities. Gnog thinks he might try to return and investigate more, but for now, we should press on. As we turn to go, two people are approaching, dressed identically, carrying helmets. Gnog calls out a greeting. Evening! We are thanked for stowing weapons. They ask if they can help... Gnog, insight 13; he goes on to describe what we're looking for. One walks ahead and one falls behind, at at his Deni sidles up and gives him a look. It was "may I help you" because we look out of place, not to be actually helpful. Either way, they're escorting us and that's useful for security. Awkward smalltalk with the guard in front.

The front guard (a giff) asks to look at the scroll and Gnog hands it over. We're going past the high-walled Donjon, which we're told is a prison. Miken asks the guard at the back (a human) why the lake's water level is so low. He mentions that they're expecting "a shipment" which is apparently a bit late and we surmise that the lake's water is refilled artificially by chunks of ice asteroids. On the right is a beautiful forest - well, some woods - on a lower terrace, technically mid city, which climb up to meet the road. It's good to see some nature, but Gnog notes that none of the trees seem particularly old. Mature, but not ancient. We get past this to a high wall with gate towers, separating mid-and-high city at this point, with the theatrical company behind - a beautiful performance house to the left and some kind of brightly coloured, complex shaped "big top" style tent across the road on our right.

We're told about the Man-o'-War, "the best inn on the rock!" says the guard - if you can afford it. People tend to book a room if petitioning the prince and waiting for an audience.

We're taken as far as the guardhouse on "our side" of the bridge. He invites us inside, and we go in, hoping we're not being arrested for something! There's a bit of a commotion inside and we're told to pause, then led around away from whatever the trouble is to a floor up on the next level. He helps us explain to the clerk why we want to cross the bridge. Gnog - persuasion adv. 16,20!+7 - the guard does a great job of arguing that the letter should be taken to give us passage, but we don't know what we should do when we get there. We're asking for advice.

The female giff doesn't really know what to do but does agree to try and find something out from the captain. "They're armed, **Geff**!" she argues and we remember that Miken's blade is still out, so we stow that in the bag of holding too, pointing out that Miken is very frightened! She lets us through into the office area behind the main desk, beckoning us through covertly and in a hurry. She knocks on the sergeant's door. After some delay and noises of drawers closing as things are hurriedly tidied, perhaps, we're asked in. The door bears only his last name, **"Sergeant Tallfellow"**. 

It's an older-looking Halfling sat behind a huge desk. We explain again, using this time more of the interesting arguments the guard had used, being as polite and respectful as we can. We need to find out who to talk to in order to get Miken adequate protection. "Here's the thing. Formally, with the letter you have, the first thing I can do is take him under our guardianship - our care - so that he's a ward under the guard protection. He'll always have an escort. That I can do. The next bit is... I don't know how to put this... I doubt Prince Andrew even knows you exist, laddie, I'm really sorry. Even if I could get an audience with him I don't know if that would really help and I don't even really know how I'd do that. I've barely met the man."

It's explained that Miken, as a ward under the High City, would be safe. Miken looks almost relieved to not be "prisoner" of sorts in Starhaven. His options seem to be:

* Library of the spheres, if he wants to study there as a scholar or understudy.
* If he's more of a contemplative person, a temple of his choice as an acolyte.
* If his gifts are more in line with the arts then there's the theatrical district.
* He'd also gladly take him on as a cadet, stationed here.

We head to a side room to discuss. Miken thinks he might be safer with the guard but that kind of military life isn't quite him, whereas the *library* sounds much more interesting. He can study more about his magic. He likes the guard though, and asks how he might be involved with them but also study the magic side; the captain welcomes the idea of a cadet with magic wielding ability and thinks that's workable. 

It seems we are in agreement! We're very grateful. The next steps are to basically get Miken settled in. Geff agrees to take Miken 'under his wing' and he'll get settled at the library first, and of course our ears pick up a mention of the Grand Archivist. We ask to come along and we're told we can.

We head along a roughly North-South road, with many beautiful estates and so-on. As we get to the Southern edge, we see some kind of solar sailor moored on a private dock. The library looks ahead. A collection of varying level towers and layered semicircular domes. Floating above and rotating around are metal, carved stone and crystal spheres (similar arrangement to astrolabes). The towers have strange kaleidoscope windows that wind and spiral up wards; one has some kind of full height stained crystal lit window going up one side. The roofs seem to be made of some kind of ceramic mosaic tile.

We go through a main entrance into what we expect to be a building but it in fact has open walls, with curving terraces; it feels more like a courtyard covered by a domed roof. It is kind of an amphitheatre. We head up a ramp at which Geff stops and asks some passing people for the Rector or Grand Archivist. We follow directions and get to a room with a couple of people sat and an older person who is the Grand Archivist's secretary. He says the archivist is busy so she can't be seen right now. Geff explains and shows the scroll. No problem; after some discussion with Miken, he's taken on.

We organise a meeting with the Archivist for tomorrow at 10:00m. The other scholars have shown an interest in our crystal shard, so a panel will be convened. We'll meet in the refectory.

Our last task is to accompany Miken to his room. It has a door and a lock, which is unusual here but he can stay in it as long as he feels he needs that security, until he feels more safe within the community. He's nervous but feels OK. Gnog gives him a couple of beads of force since Miken says that if he got into trouble, it'd be his style to create a huge explosion and run! So that fits right in. After hesitating, Miken gives Gnog a somewhat awkward hug and thanks us all.

As we're saying goodbye, Miken tells us to hold on a moment and pulls out something from his shoe! It's a token. It has two sides, made of some kind of blueish grey metal, a thin layer of blue glass on the other side. Embedded in it somehow is a design that looks like three petals. Miken says, "Now, Vocath's agent gave me this as a way of identifying - well - authentication - if I ever needed to send messages through the network to them. I never had to as I didn't really know what I was meant to do, or even doing. I'm not even sure what it does or how to make it work. But I hope it comes in useful somehow."

**We thank him, final goodbyes, and off we go.**

### (3000 XP) (for everything in this new campaign, to this point)

We're told upon asking on the way out of the library that there's a good inn that looks out over the festival grounds and parklands - corner of Grand St and Park St. It is "**The Park Grand**"! We head in to this old, stone building, marble floors in the foyer. Feels surprisingly upmarket. Not a tavern though, but enough to get food and there's a room free. We can have a view over the park or festival grounds. We all definitely want the park. A quieter room ideally! We're finding it all - a lot. Fourth floor, apparently, quite high up. One room for the three of us. 2 nights, at least for now. 20gp! Wow. Well... It *is* in space after all!

Breakfast, we're told, starts at 7; it is included int he room charge along with evening drinks on the terrace. The restaurant closes at 10 and we *think* it's about 9 now, so an autognome is called to take us to the room. There's a mechanical lift to get up to the floor. There are three beds with gauze curtains that let them have some privacy within the room. There's even a bathroom with some strange contraption rather than a bath and the autognome has to explain that this is a "shower" and shows how it works. The windows dim, in a similar way to at the Academy.

The autognome says that food can be brought to the room, so we do that (3gp). It's quite cool - we can eat while looking out of the window and *almost* forget we're in space... Except for the colour of the sky.

Shortly after that, Gnog tries out the shower, heads to bed and is asleep before his head hits the pillow.



## DAY 12 (Riglan 49)

We wake up quite early, "jet lag", Gnog checks in with Fee-Ree to see how she's feeling with all the crazy stuff & trip we're on. She's a bit pensive before answering. It's been a whirlwind - she's feeling very uncertain and not sure what she's dragged us into. This isn't at all what she thought would happen and she's very unsure we'd have agreed to come if we'd known. It feels like only a few days ago, we thought we would *find out* how to do this, to find info; next thing, we're off-world with nothing but hopes and the whisper of a prayer that we stumble across something that takes us to the next clue.

Gnog says he agrees with the last bit; it's all been just hoping we can tie clues together. And today at 10am, we've got a good chance of the next one, but we've no idea what lies beyond. As for us knowing what this would be like - Gnog says it's kind of what he actually thought, not what he imagined, as its an unknown, but just new planes, strange worlds. If anything he feels luck that it's been as easy and "normal" or human, the way that we've physically flown around and met people and made connections, rather than just being thrown somewhere via portal to arriving alone at a destination. If he'd known it'd be like this he would've been *more* excited about it, not less.

Deni wakes up and asks what time it is, and we realise all we can do is guess from the angle of light, but we don't really know what the season is so just go on feel, and it's maybe 7-8am. Gnog knows the big market is nearby and figures they might have a clock or something, so perhaps we go there for street food breakfast and to get an idea of time from someone. Deni reminds Gnog that we paid 10gp a night so we'd better have the free breakfast! We head down. Breakfast is underway, so it's after 7am.

We're offered tea, coffee or juices. We remember that their "coffee" is basically evolved mastica and usually quite good so do that. Breakfast is buffet with a chef making bacon and eggs on demand. We eat well and then ask the server person what time it is. There's a large clock on the wall which we hadn't noticed - 8:23. Very precise!

We head out - mid-city, so weapons visible. Great Market can be heard and just about seen down Great Street. It's already getting busy and is a crazy collection of ad hoc avenues between stalls and tents; easy to get lost; Deni tries to keep bearings via the "sun". Gnog; perception 26. There's no side you walk on, just meandering people and lots of dodging. Gnog tries to keep in front to forge a path of sorts. There's a bump up against Gnog and a tug on his clothing. Gnog calls out to Deni, "Hey, someone's trying to steal stuff!" and tries to grab at the hand but misses badly (dex 4+4). Deni tries to follow and darts off. Gnog tries to follow - Acrobatics 17+3. We manage to corner the hooded figure, short cloak, mousy brown hair, 4ft tall. Deni grabs their arm. Gnog is meanwhile waving over the crowd to Fee-Ree so she can see where we are.

The person wriggles free of Deni, which annoys Gnog who rages and tries himself - still only (4,9+10) 19 strength to grapple - and that is also not enough; the person is very slippery! - he can't even get a hold. Deni tries once more and *does* manage it. Deni *just* gets some insight for fighting (11+12 -> 23 vs a nat 20+2 -> 22), so she stuns the person with the hilt of her knife. Gnog tries to grab, strength 23; they are stunned so Gnog gets hold. They have big round ears - it's a hadozee. They're holding Gnog's purse and is dazed. Deni takes the purse back. Gnog waits for the hazodee to come a bit more to - his? - senses as Fee-Ree arrives. Gnog says, "Hey, thievery's bad for your health! We've got an hour or so in this place, and rather than stealing from us, why not earn some legal coin by helping us find things?" but the Hadozee doesn't want to - "This is not good for me!" - the person is scared. Deni insight - not scared of us... Gnog intimidation 25 - "Who do you work for?" - "You have to let me go and they'll see that I've been caught by you! I need this job!" Gnog says, "OK, if you don't trust us, just keep away from us and we'll let you go." "Yes sir! I will not steal from you again!" - and he slinks away.

Not a great start to the market. We all stow things in our various bags that we don't need on the outside. Deni even wears her haversack on the front. Gnog was hoping to find a timepiece - we'll have to use our own means. Deni investigation 22, Gnog perception 12 - Deni points at a section which Gnog can't really figure out and we go over there. There's a row full of mechanical things made of various metals. There's even a raised wooden area with 3 autognomes. Gnog goes over to the **autognome** area and asks what they each do. The gnome there makes them himself at gets much more enthusiastic when Gnog asks about the costs (he's just curious, but the gnome smells a sale!).

It's a curious proposition. This could be a creature such as a child - capable of much growth and learning. It's creator would look for that. Perhaps it could be a friend, even a mentor for Cedric, or have its own futures; this is not an easy decision.

* Valkan's Legion for guides and escorts.
* The Smith's Coster for weaponry sale?

The creator gnome is called **Zorbu**, shortened to Zorb. He has a gatekeeper of sorts, a friend who makes sure that potential purchasers understand what they're getting into, an elderly, yellow/green, wipsy-haired man called **Rerdian** (a Githzerai). Since we can't easily decide now, we're given a card for the address of the workshop where we could go in the afternoon. We're also told that for timepieces, a particular stall (pointed out) is highly recommended - Beevi's stall. She's the best tinkerer in the market.

We thank them (sincerely) and - with Gnog very contemplative - go to Beevi's (a female gnome, middle aged probably, a shock of pink and purple hair) and ask for two things - a timepiece; trays of them appear; and a spyglass. The latter is a more surprising request; she digs around in a bag, gives it a bit of a polish and hands it over. It's nothing special but does work. Clearly 2nd hand! On the timepieces - basic but reliable. Needs to be portable. She shows us something about the size of one of their smaller sending stones, but flatter - like a large pocket watch. Brass and glass, entirely mechanical but with a "Mizzium shard" which means it doesn't need, say, winding. It can't be put into a Mizzium field or it will explode! But those are usually chambers or containers - it'd be pretty much a deliberate act. It'd be like putting the bag of holding into another bag of holding. She shows us how to set the time for new places. 500 for the 2nd hand spyglass, 250 for the watch; Gnog persuasion only 16; we agree on a price of 700gp.

We estimate it's about 9:20 now, and we think there's just about time to go to the Smith's Coster and try to maybe sell a weapon. We head there and start bartering.

* Chains of Contempt (uncommon): 750gp
* Javelin of Lightning (uncommon): 200gp
* Dragonfang Spear (very rare, custom): It would be 12,000gp (12 emeralds)

For now - Deni has lots of gold, it transpires - it's worth keeping the javelin for some ranged ability, but the chains haven't been something he found a way to use and without Garren it's not the same anyway.

It's time to go to the library. Our route takes us past a Scrollmaker **Elmandar's Star Charts** and on a bit of a whim - that 50,000gp figure to purchase a flying ship in back of mind, *just in case* - we stop by to sell some scrolls we found at Xonthal's Tower, battling elementals. We have three that defend against elemental magics. Apparently they don't see them round these parts much and are quite keen, offering (Gnog, persuasion 19) 1000gp which we gratefully accept.

The library is no busier than it was the previous night. In the Forum area (the amphitheatre-like area on the ground floor) there are a few people scattered around, as before. We get to the refectory. Our timepiece says 9:59am. Exactly on time, the others all arrive.

* The two scholars from the previous day who were with the Grand Archivist's Secretary
* Two others, one wearing a very different style of outfit, almost like a Kimono, wearing a circlet - we assume the **Grand Archivist** (called **Seema**, we soon learn); we later think that the other is her assistant.

We greet them and introduce ourselves. The Grand Archivist greets us, but not in a charismatic way; very businesslike. This isn't a politician. We show them the shard and explain. Various scrolls and books are pulled out of bags that the presumed-assistant carries. The shard - with assurances of no damage - is placed into various strange boxes which apparently assist their study. After a while of this, a large glass-sided cube shaped box is produced. There is some debate about whether or not this might not affect the shard itself... The Grand Archivist is "pretty certain" it'll be OK. We say it's no problem, we have several and show them.

The Archivist puts on some gloves, picks up one of the smaller shards. Everyone backs away a bit! One takes a timepiece from around her neck and put it into a satchel. Gnog puts his in his backpack... The cube is opened. The glove the archivist wears looks like a fine chainmail glove and as it enters the box it starts to spark. She places the crystal and closes the box. The shard levitates and tiny arcs of lightning jump from the plates of glass to the shard. There's a strange vibrational frequency noise and at this, the scholars get very interested and start looking up tables of numbers on scrolls. One adjusts a dial on the corner of the box; the frequency of vibration changes. We watch, a little bemused; about 2 minutes later they turn the dial all the way to the left, the shard falls back and is retrieved. It's left on a small pillow - it might be quite hot, apparently.

The scholars debate a while more, then decide to try something. One of them holds a shard while one of us holds one. We're told to write down a sequence of numbers and they'll do the same; we'll compare a run of 10. Gnog: Intelligence saving: Only 5!

We compare. The ten pairs of numbers are identical.

Gnog realises the numbers "came to him" somehow. He asks who was "sending" him the numbers? It turns out the scholar was. As a control check, we put the shards aside and repeat the process. This time, two numbers are the same, probably by chance. Gnog has no psychic abilities, after all.

Many questions follow, especially for Fee-Ree; we make sure she's OK talking about it, and she is fine since this is a necessary thing. We talk about the kinds of magic and time ago - 7 years, now, Fee-Ree estimates. The assistant is in and out to fetch various books on request, looking a little harried towards the end! The Archivist waves someone down from the corridor and offers us tea. So we sit, drinking tea. All the samples are handed back.

* They are interested in doing more study but would require "resources" - we can pay - but it would need a full team of scholars for the rest of the day and some of tomorrow
* We're assured it is a scholarly endeavour, not a profit making venture!
* **7 years ago on Torril is significant. There was record of an "event" in other places.** Records are sketchy.
* We're shown a book purchased off Beevi (who we know, by chance). She's a relative of a famous gnomish artificer, known as **"V" for short**. The book talks of an event on her world that seems related; there are corresponding events recorded in a couple of other locations that they didn't think linked before, but they think might be now.
* They're just not sure what they're linked *by*. An account describes "ribbons of reality unfolding from an Izzet experiment" - **the Izzet league** is known for playing around with Mizzium and causing accidents all the time, but in this instance they found small crystals of ruby found embedded in the experiment chamber afterwards. Sounds like what we have ourselves.
* **Maybe we find out more on Ravnica, Beevi's planet?**
* If they work more, they can give us a more certain hypothesis by tomorrow.
* The telepathic communication links imply a link to the Ruby Palace, as we'd already heard before; alleged to be the stronghold temple of **Sardior**, though modern texts seem to say that this is just a myth.
* They pull out a poem written on a world called **Krynn** that refers to **Tiamat and Bahamut**, although by different local names; it's a sort of creation myth. **Sardior** was their first pure creation, their only true child. Sardior was rent asunder and shattered by war between Tiamat and Bahamut - the shattering of their union and love.
* Legend says that the Ruby Palace is the place where worshippers of Sardior are trying to bring all pieces of Sardior back together such that they might rise again.
* Only Krynn has this reference. **Sardior would be neutral**. The legend indicates that all gem dragons would come from there.
* They might have dismissed all of this except there's evidence to show that gem dragons *do exist* but they're very, very rare. The creation myth seems to be just a myth as far as they know.

We will definitely pay for the studies and return tomorrow. It'll be 50gp. No problem!

There is much to think about. We thank them and head off, deep in thought. We weave our way through the city, intending to seek Elaina at the Happy Beholder, distracted frequently by shops or performances. Things get more colourful as we get to the Low City. It's past midday by the time we finally arrive.

It's interesting to note that while things are much busier, people seem quite relaxed and friendly - at least compared to the high city where people gave us distance and avoided us almost, while in the mid city people were at least distantly respectful - market theft aside! - whereas here people are more likely to greet you. Perhaps in part, they are assessing friend or foe. Perhaps we look friendly! They might also be seeking trade; the signs of people looking for something.

The Happy Beholder is *very* lively. There is singing and general revelry. It's a surprisingly beautiful four-storey building with ivy growing on the walls, potted plants hanging from banisters of upper floor Juliette balconies (flush to floor-to-ceiling windows, to stop people with the windows open from falling). Many are open, which leads to a lot of noise spilling out.

Gnog walks in - wisdom saving 14; luck point; update to 19. He instinctively reaches for his weapon but then just manages to stop himself. There is a **giant, real, blue Beholder here**.

A large island bar in the middle of the room has ladders extending up to numerous racks of drinks. Seating on the ground floor with interior balconies overlook the bar. It's somewhat reminiscent of the Yawning Portal, but much larger. The beholder floats, not serving anyone; it doesn't have hands... Many staff are running around. A group of people are laughing loudly at the bar - "You changed the story, Luigi!" - ah, so *that* is Luigi.

Perception 18. Gnog sees Elaina, mostly via Flapjack floating around with his captain's hat on. Gnog turns to Fee-Ree and Deni who are just behind him, blocking the door, and says - "no, wait, no weapons - *THAT* is Luigi, it's apparently not attacking... It seems to be benign!"

So Gnog leads them over to Elaina, which takes us towards stairs. "HULLO!" says a loud voice and we're the focus of many eyes. "YOU'RE NEW! WELCOME TO MY BAR!" and Gnog goes "Ah, the famous Luigi I presume? I'm Gnog!" "Ah well, I have another name - <...psychic gibberish...>" - and Gnog says, "aaah, yes, that's hard for us smaller creatures to understand. I can see why we have to use Luigi!"

It turns out that Luigi is a literally enlightened Beholder. They're created by the dreams of other Beholders, but most are paranoid and fearful, which manifests as hate; they dream in those terms, so most Beholders are born that way. Luigi travelled somewhere that allowed him to discover "the ultimate truth of Beholders" and it made him who he is. The conversation goes well, Gnog mentioning that he's impressed by the building and Luigi saying that he carved it himself; we get free drinks (!) and end up with Elaina.

Deni realies that the two of Elaina and Flapjack have been here _the whole time_ - they left the ship, came here and started drinking.

We talk about the various options. They can't offer us a ride, of course, because it's Mert's boat. But we can always hire / charter something. Elaina says they're getting tired now and will go to their usual Inn haunt, **The Mouldy Turret**. We'll find them there, if not here, before tomorrow night.

We speak to Luigi about ships. A decent starter ship *could* be as little as 20,000 in practice, for something small and basic. Might be an option. Fixer-upers? Any price really.

We have lunch at the tavern - 15sp total. 

Next, we make our way to the address we have on the card from Zorb. It's in the low city, near where the Dwarven City means the Burrows. The workshop has a handwritten sign hanging askew over a stone archway between two buildings leading to a small alley, saying "**Zorbu's Magnificent Creations**". There's a plate underneath saying "Proprietor: **Zorbu Tablabu**.

Gnog gives Deni a boost up so she can correct the askew-ness of the sign. We head down the alley which leads to a small courtyard with two doors. Zorbu's door has lettering above, nailed into the wood, "Zorbu's Magnif" - and that appears to be all they could fit! Gnog knocks.

The door is opened by Rerdian. "Oh! You actually came!" - "hello! Yes!" - "Come in! Come in!".

In a room off to the side is an autognome, which seems to be arranging things - tidying, assembling stuff. We're led to another room from there, through another archway. Zorbu is there. He's on a short stepladder getting something off a shelf. Two of the autognomes from the market are present; the other, the bigger of the three, is partly dismantled. Gnog asks, "having some trouble with the big guy?" - and he's answering about the hydraulics and some technical teething issues when he suddenly realises that he recognises us from the market and catches himself to "...just some routine maintenance."

We learn from the conversation that if the autognome is damaged. It would need someone expert in smithing and tinkering. Fee-Ree recognises a spell scroll that we are shown - the Mending spell can help it; but also, once it's "made alive" though, regular healing magic can heal it too. OK, so, that's something.

A demonstration is arranged. Zorbu finds a chest and opens it. A beautiful looking sphere, full of some kind of strange energy, is inside. He asks us which one we want to demonstrate; we point at the first of the 3 we'd been shown - with glass panels that let some of the workings be seen - a clever, but less hardy construct, only small - 3.5ft tall. It is called "**Tazythas**" or Taz for short.

We learn that the demo would require activation and while it could be deactivated later (it'd go into stasis and keep memories) Gnog makes a rash decision.

We commit to taking the autognome.

Rerdian looks concerned. Gnog assures him that we're serious. An excited Zorbu starts telling us many things, and we do our best to remember all of them. We learn that of the price, 5 sapphires activates all the mental abilities. 10 sapphires will - well, do we have anything belonging to someone we're really connected to?

Gnog cautiously hands over Garren's cracked amulet. Apparently, it helps imbue Taz with, what we're told, is essentially a soul. The process won't destroy or consume the amulet, but Taz would then carry it as a connection between Taz, Gnog and the spirit realm or friend.

Gnog, in a bit of daze, digs around for trade bars, eventually producing the equivalent of the staggering **10,000gp needed**.

We are offered tea. Apparently, this will take a while. When Rerdian comes back with the tea and Zorbu is tinkering and doing his stuff, Gnog asks Rerdian - "we've heard Zorbu's enthusiastic description of what Taz will be, but what advice do *you* have for how we should treat this creature?"

"Tazythas will be like a friend, but it's like meeting someone for the first time. You'll have to work at it. The reason why he's asked for that memento from you is so that you start off on a good footing. You don't 'start at zero'. You'll both feel a connection though he won't understand why. He'll figure it out over time, but won't hold it against you. **Tazythas is Zorbu's greatest creation. I've known Zorbu for more than a decade and a half. Tazythas took him 8 years to build. He's been adding more and more and more over the years! It really is his masterpiece. You seem like good, honest, folk; Zorbu's *never sold* an autognome before. He's sold helpers but he's never sold one of the three working autognomes that he's made. That big one in there doesn't work reliably - never has - that's not one of the three. Another he activated, which is the one you saw in the workshop. The other is the personal defender you saw in the market. But Tazythas is really quite special**. We've put the best of ourselves into him. You might find he has some quirks, like Zorb."

Gnog realises that these two are probably partners.

"That makes it a bigger responsibility than I thought. And we'll try to live up to that. So while Zorbu tinkers, let me tell you what that amulet represents..."

Zorbu spends a long time, working to move the energy from the globe into the autognome and transfer the amulet over to become part of Taz. Meanwhile, we tell Rerdian our story. The more he hears, the more he asks.

We don't even realise but it's past 4pm when Zorbu shouts, "Yes! Come! Come into the room!" and we go in. There's Taz. "Ha! Wait. You're? You must be - you must be Gnog! And Deni? And Fee-Ree? How do I know this?" and Zorbu explains about the amulet and "preprogramming". We listen carefully to the way that Zorbu speaks to Taz. Taz asks "what are we doing? Your my companions? We must be doing something." Taz bursts into song! It describes through his music the bonds of friendship that Gnog and Garren must've felt when they first met. "And now I am free to experience this myself! Oh what a lovely day!" - and so-on.

Gnog tries to explain that Taz doesn't have to anything he doesn't want to. Taz responds by, "Well, that depends on how good a case you put! Let's agree to debate everything!" - so, we do! Taz seems surprisingly disarming and engaging.

Zorbu has to say goodbye to Taz. He says there's nothing more he can teach him; it's time for him to learn and experience the world first hand. The conversation the two subsequently have is quite moving.

(We learn that Rerdian is a Githzerai. History check; Gnog realises that on the fateful day Garren and he tired to find Garren a new sword, the very patient assistant at Balthors was Githzerai too).

Gnog has to ask an awkward question. How long will they all live? Gnomes might live to 350-400, but this Gnome is in his 200s. He'll outlast Gnog anyway. Rerdian is unsure - they don't usually live "in time", more in limbo, so Rerdian is ageing and does not know how long he might have. He suspects a lifespan of less than a century. And as for Taz? As long as he looks after himself - which he knows how to do - technically indefinite.

Gnog isn't sure how he might ever get back to this place. But he has to commit to doing it some time. Or of course, Taz might choose to leave and come of his own accord. 

Zorb asks if Taz wants to leave with us and wander into the city. Taz is enthusiastic. We can talk about "what we're here to do" and see if our quest interests Taz.

Gnog is choked up leaving. This isn't Garren. But some part of this bond, the way that we're starting out, is because of him. He's helped us, even after his departure and in no small way. As we leave, Gnog turns back to the two of them and says "Should it come to it, you have my sincerest pledge that I'll defend Taz as fiercely as Fee-Ree or Deni or myself; I'll defend him with my life if I need to. It's evident that this is no mere construct or machine, and no mere autognome either. And I take commitment seriously. We will meet again."

Zorbu holds Rerdian hand, tearfully. He's very happy, as well as sad. **"Thank you. I never imagined this day would come. And I knew. I *knew* - we just need to stick to our guns that the universe will look after us. That things will happen the way they're meant to; that when you came to our stall this morning that you would be the one. I felt it. Something spoke to me and it felt right. And I knew you would come, this afternoon! That you'd be the one that Taz walks away with, to explore the beautiful world out there, that I have seen; that he will get to see"**. The two of them waving as we leave.

We wander along, Taz whistling tunefully. There is a sudden whirlwind of thoughts and consequences that hit Gnog hard.

* Are Fee-Ree and Deni OK with this? That is, did they actually want a fourth member of our group?
* Will Gnog be able to remember that while there is an initial connection formed from the memories of emotions of Garren, Taz is an entirely different and unrelated person?
* Can we live up to the responsibility of giving Taz the best start we can, given Zorbu's dreams and wishes?
* Will we be able to return here, or at least will Taz be able to return, in time for him to see them _both_ again before at least one of them passes away from this material plane?

There are many more questions besides. Moral, ethical, profound; some more shallow. Taz is just _likeable_ immediately - and not just because of the amulet. The very second this curious being sprung into "true" life and burst into song, Gnog felt that same instant bond he'd felt with the other members of his party. He hopes they feel it too. **He isn't sure what it means or if it's entirely real, but this strange, fragile metal creature has become somehow as precious as Fee-Ree or Deni are, or Garren was**.

Gnog wants to head to the temple district. We look around at the many varied religions - Taz is curious. Gnog's looking for Helm. There's a Temple of Justice; it has Helm's symbol and name, but others too. We go inside to have a look. It's familiar - sort of spartan, but grand and open, all strong columns and grey marble. Much heraldry everywhere - shield-like insignias. Order, justice, charity. Taz Religion 18: He likes to point out who many of these other-world gods, possessing the same domain for those worlds, and how they're related. Tier, Torm and Helm are linked - Tier about justice, Torm about strength and Helm about protection (mostly). They overlap - protecting the weak, bringing justice, fighting evil. Taz speaks in an interested tone, and a little sing-songy, but also he describes things in a recital-of-facts way, rather than in the manner of one who has experienced any of those specific religions. These all have other names on other words; in some cases, combined as one, or as two; often as three; sometimes as more. **Krynn** represents the concept as the single god **Paladine** who we might understand as Bahamut.

Gnog finds the alter area and briefly - a little awkwardly - introduces Taz to Garren and vice versa. He knows we're a long way from home. Taz insight total 20. Taz knows this is important to Gnog and understands the expected etiquette. Gnog isn't expecting much - he knows Taz won't be able to "hear" and doesn't expect to hear Garren either; but he does get a sense of calm, as if somehow Garren is signalling and had hoped we'd meet. It's a strange feeling and Gnog can't be too sure if it's really Garren or his own imagination, though it's a familiar thing. It doesn't matter too much. It's nice anyway. It feels a bit like validation, perhaps.

The party agrees to leave a 200gp donation, since they do help with orphans and so-forth, even on this strange rock, hanging somehow in Wildspace. The minister thanks us and blesses us (all four of us gain Inspiration).

We head out and on a whim, Gnog pulls out Vajra's sending stone and says "We are off-world. This might not work. Cedric headed to Waterdeep to hang out at tavern. Am remembering what you told me. Thank you." - he doesn't know if it'll work.

We head to the mage's guildhall, on the subject of sending stones, looking to ask where they might be purchased - in fact, they have them for sale there! We learn to our dismay however that different physical worlds **are different planes** so our message to Vajra won't reach her. Sending stones, even those that we might buy here, do not work across worlds.

The only way to in fact travel or communicate by magic that we know of is the Plane Shift spell, similar to Fee-Ree's same-world teleport; it requires a physical object from the destination plane. Messaging equivalents may exist but if they do, they are *very* rare. Messages must be carried physically between worlds in the overwhelming majority of cases. Even Plane Shift, as a physical transport, is only known to a very tiny number of people. Gnog asks for the price on the pair of stones; they're quite common here, so "only" 200gp and Gnog buys them. Later, we drop one off for Zorbu - it might not work cross-world, but hey, it's *something* and might come in handy. If nothing else, it's a physical representation of their bond.

We figure we're all set up and probably can tell Captain Elaina that she can head back, so we return to the Happy Beholder and seek her out; they're here, but in a different seat. Sober and awake, seem rested. Introductions all round for the newbie. On the Ruby Palace, Elaina says that there's a legend where if you know enough about the Ruby Palace, there's a way to use the magic of the Astral Sea to drift there - focusing on your destination, as usual; but most people cannot picture the palace with enough clarity for it to work. "You could go to Elmandar's Star Charts and ask there. It's worth asking because as far as I know that's the only place that has navigational... Anything! It's a place known for it."

We head to the docks. There are goodbyes; they wish us luck, most of all! Safe journey back - say hello to everyone for us. We watch the ship depart. There's a certain amount of prep and dockmaster bookkeeping, before the ship detaches, unfurls its wings and flies out along the traffic lanes.

We figure we'll chat to Beevi's stall. Deni knows the way - it's one of her skills. We're much more cautious about security now. The stall's empty unfortunately. Gnog asks an adjacent stallholder - it turns out the stalls are used by whoever wants them if they're free. Beevi tends to arrive early, but not every day.

We wander the market a little. The area we're in is quietening down but we follow our nose to a much wider street that's got more colourful stalls, with lights being put up. It's a very mixed collection; food, performers, clothing, trinkets, lamps, pets and all sorts. No two stalls are alike. Gnog picks a trinket stall (perception 16; it's an interesting one). A female hadozee with colourful wings and a wrap around her head - slightly turban-like - with googles atop it. She wears a flowy kind of kaftan and lots of jewellery.

She looks to us, lowering the goggles - they make her eyes look huge, so they're magnifying lenses of some kind. We are beckoned to the stall. "Come! Let **Madame Seeya** guess what you need!". She holds Gnogs hands. Gnog sees as he's doing this that there are lots of beautiful sugar sculls on the table. Reminds him of macabre sugar sheep! There are beautiful coloured necklaces made of all kinds of different materials. As Gnog looks, she's reading his palms and hum-ing and ha-ing. Deni is sceptical! "You're a feisty one! I like you! You can *have* this - it remind you when you leave Bral that here is where *all* cultures come together" - it's a glass sphere with somehow an entire scene depicted inside it - "maybe when you return your wit will remain as sharp, but your mind and heart will be kinder". Deni looks confused; Gnog chuckles.

Eventually she pulls out a tray full of charms of some kind. Some are carved and fish-hook shaped, others are moulded from clay with things pressed into them, some are collections of strange interesting feathers and so-on. While Gnog deliberates, Taz suddenly picks up one of the necklaces - it's metallic and in similar shades to his plating - greens, yellows, blues - and says, "I like this! The stone you gave me reminds me of father. This will remind me of home!" - which is rather disarming! "What, do my eyes deceive me? You have no aura! You're an innocent!" says Seeya, and *gives* Taz the necklace. He thanks her and starts whistling a happy tune.

Gnog quite likes the feathery trinket. One is big! A large rounded feather, just the end part which is almost circular; teardrop shaped perhaps; attached to a clasp with dangly bits made of tiny - hmm - knuckle bones?! It's kind of on trend for his general collection. In the middle, holding it all together is a somewhat iridescent swirly shell. He asks the price; 3sp. Gnog pays. She reaches up, unpins the clasp holding his shoulder furs in place - and throws it away! - then pins the new clasp in place, adjusting it so the feathers don't tickle. Then she shoos us away from her table, and goes to get some food from behind her table.

"Are you hungry?" asks Gnog to everyone. Taz says "I don't eat!" - cheap date. Gnog asks if he has a need for, well, power sources or something. He stops and thinks. "No. I do need to rest. When I rest I recharge.". Fee-Ree has already spotted a food stall and is pointing to it. We head over. Lots of little pastries, but savoury; trays of them. The trays have words we can't read. Gnog asks if Taz can read them. He stops moving completely for a moment, then whirs for a moment, and suddenly the whirring plays a melody made of two concurrent tones that change. All around the places where pieces of plating meet, the joints glow in either light blue, green or yellow briefly; then his eyes close and reopen, with a bright blue glow. Now he can read everything. He says "There's a lot. Shall I read them all?" Fee-Ree says "yes" and Taz proceeds to translate one at a time - some 20 different trays. Some are sweet, though most are savoury. As he takes we figure out what we want and eventually place an order for about 10 items for 1sp each. Taz asks to smell one. He takes it and sniffs. "Can I taste it?" - he opens his mouth, mashes it around and hands the mashed food back. "Tastes good!" Gnog says "OK, but maybe next time we'll get you your own..." They're good. Warm too.

Next, Deni spots a stall with huge lollipops. She doesn't want one - they're fun and beautiful, but too big for her. Gnog mentions if Madame Seeya hadn't shoo'd us away he'd have gone for the sugar sculls. They're too big for the chest of preserving and would probably go sticky if kept in a bag of holding. The vendor finds a way to wrap two in two different designs, one for Barri and one for Jerri. We stow them in the bag of holding.

We hear the sounds of performing. Taz goes "ooh, what's that?" and toddles off. We hurry after. We reach a big stage. There's a group of about 8 human-ish people who have just started a complicated song and dance performance - four instruments, four dancers - plus one young boy who walks around the crowd with a hat. Gnog drops in a gold piece. The complexity increases and the song gets more upbeat; the dancers get more acrobatic, even jumping on each other's shoulders to form a tower. There's a crescendo for the big finish, with long streamers they pull out of their pockets that they throw and they take a bow, the boy jumping on stage and bowing with them. Everyone applauds.

Deni asks if Elmandar's might still be open. Just to look around maybe. We do like a good book shop. Good idea - we head South, towards the rock of the edge to follow the road from there. Deni finds it easily - and it isn't hard to spot, after all; it almost looks like a small palace. 3 storeys with a spire. Gnog is surprised looking at it, as he'd been so focused on the streets and people the first time we went past that he never even noticed it was more than one storey.

Inside, it is open vertically; it's all mezzanines in a kind of spiral rather than distinct floors, with a column of air in the middle that reaches the roof 3 stories above. There seem to be more charts and scrolls than books. The top section is many feet of pure glass windows looking out to the always-night sky with a huge telescope.

Taz points out that he can use navigation tools but does not have "built in" charts, so Gnog asks an assistant if there's a chart showing the Rock, Ravnica, Krynn and, perhaps, Torril? We're taken up a floor to see a silvery-blonde haired elf in a dark purple, star-covered robe with a white cat nearby. **Elmandar** himself. He explains that Ravnica and Krynn are in different wildspace systems; we'd need to cross the Astral Sea. So it's not really possible to show their 'relative positions' on charts; the concept doesn't really have meaning.

So three charts, we think - Ravnica's system, Krynn's and indeed Torril (with the Rock), within their own realm. The assistant - Elmandar's daughter, it transpires! - fetches three *huge* charts. It turns out they can be quite expensive, because there's a lifetime guarantee that if we ever bring the chart back it'll be updated for free, for all time; things move in Wildspace. Elmandar shows us the "normal" chart size rather the "display" chart which is shown to give us an idea of what the smaller chart contains. Gnog notices as he looks at the big and small chart, to his surprise, that these things are magical - they're animated - movement of planets are shown. We're told that the Torril map would be 500gp.

"Wait, what? This can't be right. This shows Torril going *around* the sun." Elmandar insists and Deni chips in that she'd learned a bit about this when she went to - briefly - university; Taz knows it too. Mind blown for Gnog. Elmandar points out another system - "this is one of my favourites! Two suns that rotate around each other". Gnog gains over time in the conversation an understanding of some basic gravity, rotational mechanics and that planets aren't flat (but he figured that from seeing ships appear over the horizon) - though *some* planets are; there's even one in Torril, quite close to the sun. Looking closer, Gnog can see it's a flattened disc with very tall thin mountains on either side. Looks a bit like a spindle. Has a gravity plane in the middle, which is very odd, we're told; most have a gravity *point* in the middle.

"**This is where the beholders congregate. It's their world. H'catha.**"

Torril would be 500, Krynn 800 (a very complex system) and Ravnica 300 (a simpler system). We figure Krynn might be our lowest priority. So we suggest that we might take Torril and Ravnica. Gnog asks about the Ruby Palace - and as he says those words, silence. People give each other awkward looks... Elmandar asks why and we explain, in rather abstract terms. Elmandar sighs. He's been searching for it for centuries. **He does know it exists** but it's incredibly hard to find. The only person who has ever been on there, he did meet briefly and *begged* to be told how he learned of it, but to no avail; or rather, it didn't make sense. He could describe it but the points of reference were too different for Elmandar to understand. **He did say that he learned of the location from seers who could see through space and time on his home plane** - he was a demigod who had escaped! His plane operates under very different rules; gods can't leave that plane normally. Perhaps he could leave because he was "only" a demigod. Elmandar doesn't know much about it - **Theros** - the Library of the Spheres might know more. Its laws of nature have over millennia allowed gods to spring into existence through purely worship and belief of its people. Nowhere else is this known to have happened, but on Theros, it's the belief of the populace that created those gods, not the other way around.

We do try to bargain a bit on price - but the prices are fixed. 800gp it is. It's a crazy amount of money for maps, but it is thick Enduring Parchment and actually animated - animated yet hand drawn. They each come with a beautiful ceramic and brass scroll case.

Studying the map of Ravnica - technically, Guildspace - the planet is easy to spot and very strange. It's entirely criss-crossed with lines, quite dark in colour and has little dots of green and blue but mostly greys, blacks and whites. Gnog asks about the lines - essentially, huge roads; it's more or less one giant city. Elmandar fetches a book - "The City Of Guilds" - which he gives us for free.

We depart. We head along the road past The Edge, around the quiet Arena of Frun and along past the Festival Grounds, which are empty presently; a beautiful park. A few people are out on romantic strolls. We get back to our hotel and head up to the room.

Deni is going to sort out a pull-out bed, but Taz says he doesn't need it. He does decide to sit, since we seem uncomfortable with him standing. He does try a bed but is a little confused; it seems a little redundant, other than giving him a view of the ceiling. So, the chair it is.

Fee-Ree has a shower and comes back asking about how Taz keeps clean. Taz says he believes he's water proof but doesn't know how deep he can go without damage. Rain or swimming is OK. A soft, dry, lint-free cloth without solvents works just fine on the outside!

Fee-Ree finds a few pieces of fresh fruit and vegetables for us to snack on.

We get ready to sleep and head to bed. Gnog says, "Good night, Taz!". Taz responds "Good night, Deni, Fee-Ree and Gnog. It was an interesting day. Thank you."

Taz is motionless. Everyone else falls asleep. Taz is still conscious. He looks at the room. Things seem new, even though they are familiar. He's personally seeing things now that he has been taught about by Zorbu. After a couple of hours, the room sounds rhythmic from the sounds of his three new friends. There is a small click as Taz, without specifically willing it, shuts down most things; essentially, sleep. Recharging from the universal energy. He's still aware, but now more distantly.

A part of Taz's mind starts to drift; thinking about the day, processing things. Organising. It might be a dream for a human, but Taz is lucid and aware of the process. Taz reaches for a new and unfamiliar thought - a strange thing; an old memory, yet a new feeling. In his mind, he can visualise it; a silvery shimmering oval hovering in space in front of him. It looks like a portal but he can't see through. Taz reaches his arm forward, in his head; he imagines himself; his finger extends through the portal; then he steps through.

The memory is not an intruder, but new, a recent memory, but it has a feeling of age. Through the portal, Taz is on a farm. It's late - dark, nighttime. Perception only 3+2. He is on a farm. There are plants. There is a fence and trees. A building is to the left, 100ft away. There is a larger building, maybe a barn, near it. The barn is burning! He hears a sound of panic - voices - people running his way. He hurries towards the barn to see if he can help. A teenager of maybe 14-15 years age followed by a younger child, 12-13, human, are running towards him; "They're trapped inside! Hurry! Where have you been?" and they run past Taz, who continues towards the barn, but does turn to look and see why the kids ran past; a few more do the same. He sees an older child running in with a bucket.

He is by the barn. A door is open. Flames are emerging. The child is trying to get the water thrown at the fire, then running for more. "They're trapped inside, both of them! We've been attacked!... Watch out!" - coming around the barn is a group of three men in armour, mismatched, battered; they hold weapons and look almost crazed. They cut off the route through into the barn. The kids run, except the older one who throws down the bucket and picks up a sharpened fence post, brandishing it like a makeshift spear. Taz immediately casts L2 Armour Of Agathys, brandishes his sword and shield; initiative 16.

Taz notices that they all look somewhat injured; as if recovering from a recent fight. The one trailing in the rear is bandaged up. The guy in front waving his longsword has a bandage around his head. He runs forward. "No! No, this is all a trick! The orcs are coming for us! They're in there!" The kid disagrees - their guardians are in there - they'd taken in these three and given them a place to heal, but they'd attacked us. It seems these three are under some influence or delusion. The lead man disarms the child then attacks Taz but misses. The one behind him has a go too, and would hit but Taz reacts instinctively with a Shield spell; the second attack misses. There's even a third attack, with a short sword, which also misses.

Taz tries Charm Person at L2 (Wis 15 DC save) - on the guy who hasn't attacked yet (no adv.) who is charmed and on the lead attacker who disarmed the boy (adv on save), who gets 15 and makes the save. Taz says, "You should not be attacking us. Something has confused you. We are not your enemies. These are only children. Can you help your two friends?" - persuasion 29!

He comes forward and tries to get in between Taz and the other two. "He has a point! Wait! He only just arrived - he might have come back from war himself - this might be a misunderstanding." - Taz tries to give him Bardic Inspiration, too, as a bonus action and with mote of protection, it adds a d6->4, getting a 14 for persuasion. The other two pause for a moment. The other two say "we're not attacking the children! This guy here is interfering! Those two in there can't be trusted. They can't."

Taz tries to convince them that it's horrors of war. The non-charmed 2nd guy is convinced. The crazed lead attacker is too far gone and attacks Taz. He hits with his longsword, heavily. 8 damage, but the Armour means he takes a whopping 10 cold damage. The second guy tries to hold the boy back. Taz asks the boy to keep back and says he will go inside as soon as he can!

Taz considers trying to heal the crazed attacker to calm him, but (medicine check only 5) the best he can tell is that the injuries are physical only and the rest is in his head. Insight tells him that he might not be able to avoid taking them down; they set the fire, their swords are covered in blood. He feels he has no choice and, using Booming Blade, attacks the leader guy with the longsword, hitting for 9 damage + 5 thunder. He also throws some bardic inspiration at the older child, hoping that he'll disengage and run.

The same aggressor once more swings at Taz. The first misses, but the second hits, once more not shieldable, for 6 damage, but he takes another 10 damage (though the armour now dissipates as Taz no longer has temp HP remaining). The second guy is in a bit of a wrestling match with the kid, trying to pin him down! Athl. check, contested; the kid rolls a 9 but had 6 on his bardic inspiration - a 1 then 6, thanks to mote of potential - for a total of 15, against 13 from the bigger guy; so thanks to that, he kid is not pinned. He wriggles away and runs. The guy decides to not run after the kid and stay, reassessing the situation.

Taz tries to non-lethally take down the first guy. With Built For Success he just hits, using Booming Blade again. For 12 damage, he knocks him out. Taz calls to the 2nd guy, "he's not dead, just knocked out. Are you going to help me or fight me? I'd rather you helped me!" disadv. persuasion, 19. He is unconvinced. He won't attack, but he still believes he's in the right. Instead, he runs after the other kid. Taz has to try and stop him; he hits with two eldritch blasts, for 19 damage, giving chase. He sees that the child is trying to climb up the side of the barn, and after moving, is just within range to add some more inspiration. The guy on the ground leaps up to try and attack the kid, trying to pull him down to the ground. It looks like he might succeed so Taz tries to distract with Silvery Barbs, granting attack advantage to himself. He moves closer, within 30ft, enables hexblades curse and once more tries eldritch blast. Both hit, with - rather inadvertently - maximum damage; rolled 10 for both, plus 4 on the spell and 3 for the curse; the man is felled.

The charmed third man comes up and we both try to smash through the barn. We get through the side. Taz's "devil sight" (infra-red) helps him see through the smoke; perception, flat roll, 18. One burned man is crouched over another, pinned by a beam. As a bonus action Taz tries to heal the burned man so he can help lift the beam; only 5; he runs in to try and help lift it. He runs in - acrobatics 17 - he dodges fire, but it's very hot and the casing starts to take damage. Taz is not strong, but gives his last bardic inspiration to the charmed solider, who is strong, *and* aids as best he can. He ends up with a 23 strength check with everything added up. Between us and the child, with the other injured man then dragging his friend out from under. We make it out. They're badly injured though and near death. Taz is about to heal the worst of them, but is stopped. "No, child. Save it for the others. They're behind the barn, badly burned. Just kids!... Don't let this change you. People have good in them. But sometimes they see things that take them to bad places. Promise me you'll keep to the light. Promise me you'll strive for the light, **Garren**."

Taz steps back through the portal, realising that he's relived something else.

### (2100 XP for Taz)

(END OF PART 4 - Part 5 next)
