# Gnog: Part 13

It continues to be day 35 (Riglan 72 - 6 hours shifted forward) - local day Friday (7 day week). We are in Niv Mizzet's sanctum, in Nivix, after we managed to see - with Gibo and Bebe's help - Ral Zarek, who explained a great deal and left us here (bringing us in by teleport, and he also is the only person who can come back to teleport us out!) to investigate Niv's research notes (if you can call them that).

We noted that we found a red crystal cloud in Guildspace which is of interest to him if it could be harvested - if still there - and Gibo and Bebe also have done experiments with resonance and found certain red crystal amplifications were excited more by that; Ral's going to look into it.

It comes down to reading, with Taz required to translate. We look for:

* Anything about vulnerabilities for Tezzeret or his peers
* Anything he might have written about Fee-Ree and what her role is specifically
* Anything about exactly what the cataclysm is - we have some idea but no details
* Information on Jace's whereabouts
* Information on his own travel plans

We quickly learn that Tezzeret is far too recent and is not covered by any writings, at least not in any recent detail about acts on Ravnica, details of his own abilities and so-on. Just the general stuff about the Infinite Consortium.

There's nothing about Fee-Ree either. In fact there's nothing that really denotes any sort of role or detail about any of the Four. Niv himself probably doesn't know. No plan is laid out in any notes - nobody is playing a part. "He might not want you for your fire, then" says Gnog; "he doesn't seem to know why everyone is here, just that they need to be. The drawing is just that, a drawing, not much else can we can infer."

There is a *bit* more on the cataclysm. Group adv. Taz investigation, 18+4 -> 22:

* There's nothing laying out a clear narrative - Niv doesn't seem to write that way at the best of times and besides, it's someone *else's* plan which he's trying to piece together.
* It seems that it was all kicked off by a precognition of the planet being destroyed and Niv himself being killed. We rather get the impression that the *latter* of those was the main motivation for him to act.
* The civilisation of the *living* crumbles. But more than that - it is the harvesting of their souls at the same time as the harvesting of the planet physically. It's not the same as what happened to the Voda, though; the words there are Amonkhet and it's a question of our translation and things we make assumptions for when we translate to words like "harvest", which isn't a correct assumption in this case.
* Niv wants to prevent the mass death, but that's far less important to him than another thing he's written - he specifically says that this is a "threat to all those who **have the spark**". The spark?
* Whatever the Four are for, he apparently saw that he needed - via precogs - to start dominos falling in a way that caused the Four to either gain this spark, or if they already had it, end up on Ravnica.
* Niv believes this cataclysm would be a harvesting of this spark. That includes *his* spark, which he believes he has. The issue of all of Ravnica being destroyed appears to be almost a footnote within what he considers this cataclysm's most important facets to be.

At this, we forego for now worrying about Jace or Niv's travel plans because this issue of "the spark" is clearly critical. We quite quickly as a group look around for books and scrolls which refer to this and soon enough find a scroll that mentions it.

* It is a particular ability that very powerful beings have, which allows them to traverse the planes. So a "spark" specifically means "planes walker", so it's not exactly uncommon but as a proportion of any planetary population it's very small.
* This helps us understand other things on the table which hadn't made sense prior. The words are all linked, one thing leading to another in webs. Nicol Bolas, whatever kind of creature he is, is concocting a plan to harvest these sparks for himself.
* The spark does not seem to be specifically the ability to plane walk; it seems more just something that manifests alongside, when a person gets powerful enough to be able to do such things.
* Deni notices that for certain things to make sense "a spark" isn't really a unit of anything and collecting them isn't like a bag of gems; it might be like a collation of energies into a more powerful form but we really don't understand the deeper arcane explanations from Niv enough to say.

It has been several hours - late afternoon, maybe early evening - and Ral returns. We agree that the next steps are to try and find the red crystals in Guildspace. It's estimated that it'll take a day - Taz will need to work with Ral and various astronomers to pinpoint the last known location in Guildspace, with the rest of the party helping pull together information required, until Ral has enough information to search.

We're allowed to stay in this lab's dorms overnight, and while it's a pity not spending more time with our goblin friends, we're happy enough to not have to make the long journey back to the pyro lab - especially not if it involved the furnace room!



## Day 36 (Riglan 73 - 6 hours shifted forward) - local day Saturday (7 day week)

By Saturday around early evening, things are in motion and Ral has what he needs. It'll take a while to see if the crystals are really there and harvest them if so. In the mean time we figure we have a few major options:

* Things like speaking with the Dimir etc. seem somewhat less important than they once did, but at least we should return the library book! 
* After the art class and with Fee-Ree's picture on the wall, Gnog points out that he has no drawings of Garren. None of any of us actually. He thinks, despite it seeming frivolous, that it would be good to get some sort of picture done. It turns out the Izzit can help; they have a device which can "capture a moment in time". What do we want? Hmmm. Well, maybe just the four of us stood together, then, in the laboratories of Nivix; quite a memory and a very important time. We find a spot, we stand - and the goblins fuss around and make us switch places and pose, we feel bit silly! - with some difficulty arising because Gnog's very tall, but Taz is very short and they find it hard to capture all of it. Taz uses his dulcimer to fly and hovers above behind Fee-Ree and Deni, with Deni standing on a small box so there's less variation in height. It's perhaps not quite the "natural look" which Gnog had in his head but it's still good to get something of us all together. There are four tries. In the first, the device bursts into flames - apparently this happens! - they put out the fire and bring a replacement unit. The next two work, but there's only where where everyone looks happy and they're properly "in frame" and captured. So that's the one! The other two are fun, though, because they show movement or us dropping out of frame or being distracted. Even better, the Goblins say they can actually copy the pictures. They suggest a kind of strip, with the sequence of three photos, from happy to motion and we agree; four copies are produced, one each.
* Nissa Revane - speak to urgently.
* Ajani - speak to urgently.

Gibo and Bebe are set to work on their resonance theory. If it can be made to work, it changes the numbers enormously for the crystal requirement. We're asked, if going to P6, to give a letter to their mother explaining where they are. We would be delighted to give that to her. It talks of them doing top secret research; dad would be proud; they're naming their approach after him. We figure we may as well head out now, go P6, maybe get food and lodging there.

The mother invites us in, curious; there is tea; we deliver the message. She reads it, and gets tears in her eyes; she is very proud. She's very glad that they are being recognised, finally, for their intelligence - "they've got their father's intellect".

She asks if we'd like to stay, in reaction to us asking if she can recommend anywhere. We are tempted, but we say that the reason we're moving around is because danger follows us and we have learned that we must take care to not put others in danger. We would be horrified if anything were to happen to her, and but for that, we would have been delighted to take up her offer. Deni suggests lodgings at the library; Gnog double-checks on that, given how easily the Dimir found us; but she points out that this is because *it is watched by them* and they are in effect our security. It is agreed!

We head out looking for food. In the evening, its seems quite a few Foundry Street warehouses open doors and set up what amount to food courts. It has an interesting atmosphere. Some goblins are still working - some factories run through the night - but there are various recreation areas and it kind of comes alive. There's a strong sense of community here. Guards are posted, just in case any of the undead trouble from Medori Park, manages to find its way into the Smelting Quarter. The watch towers keep an eye out for Boros or Azorious raids. We ask, given the relative levity and community feel, if Krenko was ever successfully broken out of jail. Yes! In fact, if we hang around, we should see him. Oh hell yes!

After a while, someone starts playing some kind of song. People sing along. It seems that it's an anthem of sorts, "Krenko's Way", that celebrate him - a little strange, perhaps, for a crime boss but he looks after people here. Taz listens closely. And then, Krenko himself. He's accidentally hilarious! He wears orange-tinted goggles, a big, showy hat and a fur coat. He goes around and hands things out to families, it's all showmanship and PR. Think "Italian Chicago mob boss" looking after families, only hopefully, without the whole "murdery" bit. He seems very well liked.

He does the rounds, checks in on factories - and speaking of that, we figure we'll just check in on the factory with the replacement coolant filter, see if that's all still working OK. They're open and running 24-7; they've actually grown, thanks to the improved productivity and safety. A bit of a model factory, apparently! Other goblin factories are trying to copy some of the technology - then they won't have to rely on whatever Wayport has left.

Gnog notices **Gore House** in the distance. He's wanted to return to the Hellfire Club to see what the incubus and succubus had in mind, and while the Gore House is dangerous if we are not careful - we heard how they've been "taking things too far" - curiosity is there. Again, it seems frivolous, but if we do nothing but worry we'll just end up in bad place. He asks if the others mind and understands if they might want to get rooms in the library and leave him to it rather than going somewhere that rough - especially Deni. Deni says, "There's absolutely no way I'm letting you go in there alone!" Gnog is at once a little disappointed because he was just about to really have fun last time before she waded in - but then again - he knows she's right and he appreciates it.

So, to hell with it. Literally. Gore House - let's see what it is all about. It's about 9pm now and we haven't seen it before like this; all lit up. Means of light shine out in circles, like searchlights. It's a huge building; the lighting and darkness make a sense of scale harder to judge and it looks somehow bigger and more impressive at this time of night. There are no uplights casting the building into relief - instead there are huge fires in stone braziers and cauldrons. It's actually pretty menacing; it's dynamic light, flickering and jumping, which makes the relief castings and pictures of demons and suchlike look even more over the top.

The music inside is *very* loud. There are large crowds outside; fire dancers outside try to attract attention. Dancers on boxes - pedestals - clad in leather with whips go through various performances and kind of form a perimeter around the entrance, which has various columns. We eventually make our way through and walk in. There's a huge poster hanging like a banner at the far end of a foyer area. "**The Great Lampoon**: Free entry". Free! Done. In we go.

There's a very, very large circular bar. The music is oppressively loud. People mill around chatting, some dance; there are various dancers on podiums (in various states of undress). This is a kind of foyer-after-the-foyer, not the main show. Some people in booths around the edges of the room are getting into quite risqué behaviour; well, this *is* Rakdos. Upon entry, two tieflings arrive. One *very* beautiful woman with red eyes asks Gnog's name; the other, equally beautiful, hangs back, playing with her tail - trying to judge us perhaps. We hear a crowd laughing in an adjacent room - Mr Lampoon we presume! - so we politely excuse ourselves to head that way.

The room is packed. Some people are sat but many are stood. Stairs lead to a second floor, a gallery and, in fact, another above that - 3 stories high. Wait staff circulate wearing just underwear and a collar-cuff only tuxedo kind of thing - both genders, various races - bringing drinks and taking orders. On stage is an elaborate set with amazing lighting; it has distinct Azorious styling and painted behind, New Prahv. The performers are all very tall and dressed in what seem to be deliberately crude caricatures of Auzorious lawmaker uniforms, with the blue cowl; but here and there are small demons, mephits and so-on, running around causing mayhem. Two 'azorious' people and a very large pig (!) dressed like a Felidar make a show of telling them to stop. "You must stop! Stop. I've told you not to do this! Yes! I have seen the future!" - and so-on. It's a kind of low-brow parody but it is still observational and on-the-mark for the concerns many have.

It's near the end of the skit; the stage *rotates* to another elaborate set. A court room - unfortunately we recognise it - they get the kind of "legal" wording very right based on what we'd experience; the audience boos loudly as judgement is passed; but in the end it's all lampooning their perceived arrogance and aloofness - how lucky we all are that they're there to hold society together. Now and again a mephit will do something silly like setting something on fire or even, in one case, stabbing someone. Ah yes, again, reminder, Rakdos. It's quite violent; the crowd love it.

Another rotation. It's the Orzhov this time - a restaurant, dirty dealings, implications of bribery *with the Azorious* and so-on. It's not entirely untrue really but they portray things in a quite callous way. People suspect this stuff from the Orzhov but it is perhaps daring a way to portray so bluntly, and indeed this part of the act seems less comedy and more political statement. The audience seem to find darkly comic humour in the proceedings. We get the impression it's a quiet way of giving the middle finger to the Orzhov! And the Azorious, prior, for that matter. As the two leave they head to different sides of the stage and the lighting splits things in two. The Azorious gets jumped by thugs and calls the Azorious law; the Orzhovian side has gone back to their estate but followed by assassins. In the mean time the thugs get to say all the things the audience seem to think that they'd like to say; but then it gets dark and the Azorious cast member is being attacked with real weapons. On the Orzhov side the same thing happens. It's "justice" in the form of kind of revenge porn. Blood is drawn; we can easily see how this stuff gets out of hand. Gnog sees Deni getting uncomfortable and since we know that Gore House has been getting out of control lately, we figure it's time to leave - hoping that the performers ultimately do all leave with their lives! - but we certainly can sense the deep frustration from the audience, whipped into a frenzy, at how the instruments of justice feel unjust to them. Just before we go, the centre area of the stage lights. The extra light lets us see that the Orzhov person has been fortunately fake-murdered, but still has plenty of real blood; in the middle, their *ghost* appears above them, saying they can't be killed. In the middle - set up while that part of the stage was dark - a horned demon appears in a red firey glow. It's meant to be Rakdos but clearly not (a tenth of the size!) - he sends his demons to trap the soul and rip it asunder; whoever is playing the spirit also gets very scratched up and bleeding. At the same time on the Azorious side the Felidar pig is actually dead, ripped to pieces; it's pretty nasty. The Azorious is strung up on hooks and chains the background painting and lighting changes to a hellscape. We try to peel ourselves away - wisdom saving - but Taz (wisdom 18) sees us having trouble and tries to distract by playing a little tune (counter-charm):

* Gnog 3+3 - unsurprisingly, Rakdos gets right under his skin - with adv from Taz 13+3.
* Likewise Fee-Ree (21) and Deni (16) do OK with Taz's help.

We're back in the main room. "Rakdos is nuts", says Gnog. "It does get to me, but that got to me for bad reasons, for sure. Speaking of Rakdos, do we try to talk to him? Is there anything to learn there, you think?"

We could try... Curious to meet such a creature. Assuming it's not a one-way trip! Taz asks one of the tieflings nearby about it. Persuasion 28! "Oh really? Well aren't you a brave little tin soldier! You want to speak to the big man himself? Well. First you'll have to get his attention. But the best way to do that is go down - no, not on me! - down, down into Rix Maadi" Deni asks what that is. "It's what lies beneath our feet. The realm of the Rakdos - our true home. What you see here? This is mere trifling child's play compared to the true face of the Cult of Rakdos. I can show you the entrance, but the rest of the way is on you... Don't be afraid; the more audacious your actions the more likely you are to capture his passing interest! Good luck!" - she puts a small flower in the brim of Taz's hat. The flow instantly wilts and turns into dust, at which she laughs; "Nothing beautiful ever lasts!" and she turns and walks away, but as she does so her face kind of melts back into a hollow skull, before she turns back into a beautiful tiefling again.

The dust from the flower suddenly blows away and leaves a trail of fire, that go to a curtained doorway; the curtains burn and fall in cinders; very theatrical. We go through the door. It leads to a wide stone landing, a hallway and then an even wider and open-air kind of landing. We immediately feel heat and hear chains clanging, bellows, creaking groaning, screaming, moaning - a huge subterranean chamber at least 150ft across and far more deep, with stairs criss-crossing all over. There are a few demons flying around. "By Bahamut's name, this looks surely like Avernus itself!" says Gnog, taken aback. Where do we go? "The bottom, I think!" says Deni - there seems to be the most activity there.

We begin to make our way down. Gnog periodically checks with Taz to make sure he's not overheating. There are platforms and lounges, surprisingly, along the way; people engaged in carnal activities abound; some orgies, some pain, "the usual" Rakdos sights but amplified considerably. Gnog tries not to look too closely at rooms... From extremes of very fat people being force-fed by people who seem to get off on that, to very skinny almost gaunt people who seem to self-worship in mirrors; every kind of BDSM we could think of and way more besides. Fetishes of any kind, sexual and otherwise. It seems like pure expression. If you think it, you feel it, you do it. It's the closest Gnog has seen to a visual representation of chaotic evil; it might not be evil, but for its evident entire selfishness. Chaotic evil doesn't have to be murderous, it can just be "I do what I want, when I want for me and don't care what happens to anyone else around".

"Deni, I think you'd better not let anyone know your age down here or the Azorious will have me in court again" says Gnog.

Down, down and down more. It just keeps getting weirder, inevitably. We reach an area where there appears to be a strange set of steps - as if a ziggurat had been turned upside down and used as a mould. Square terraces of steps lead down in ever smaller circuits. All manner of strange creatures and people are here. It sets us all on edge - the sights and sounds. Everything is either slightly or completely, wildly off. There's no veneer of beauty here either; this is just straight-up demonic.

Various demonic creatures are gathering on the bottom layer. A huge gate is present there, made of two large horns - perhaps even demon horns? - set into the ground. They seem to perpetually bleed. This seems to be the entrance to Rix Maadi, we realise - everything we just walked through *wasn't even that*, so it gets even worse from here.

We are thinking of turning around. This was a mistake.

At that moment, someone (something?) comes over and pushes Taz and Gnog, and laughs; says, "Hahaha!" and pushes Taz again. Deni says, "Stop it!" and someone pops up behind, suddenly looks like Deni and mimics her. Taz is pushed again and he falls over. Gnog helps Taz up, with Deni's help. There are three of these strange creatures now. All of them adopt Deni's face, on top of twisted black slick bodies. They mock Deni. Gnog says, "Enough of *this* bullshit" and draws the Stormbringer Maul. At this - and he recognises that these are **lampooners** - they change shape easily to mimic what they see, copying mannerisms. They seem to intentionally just annoy you and mimic it to get a reaction.

They pull weapons too. Gnog knows this is what they wanted, but they're not letting us leave, so it seems we must play along!

Initiative rolls aren't great - we are surrounded by distractions and horrors masquerading as pleasure:

* Taz 16
* Gnog 15 despite advantage
* Fee-Ree 12
* Deni 7

Before we can act, emerging from a nearby fire, appear two cackling demons. They're small - 2.5ft maybe - but winged although not flying, and clearly aren't bothered at all by heat. They start to mimic angry or pleading sounds from around us, some ours and some of others, laughing as they do so. It's a bizarre and very disturbing sound, worse than the lampooners' visual mimickery. One says, "Don't be ridiculous little girl, it's all quite funny!" at Deni, casting Hideous Laughter. Despite Fee-Ree attempting to help, Deni falls prey to the spell! Oh no. She's incapacitated. The next cackler tries with Fee-Ree, but Fee-Ree is not affected.

Taz manages to Dispel Magic the curse on Deni and gives her some bardic inspiration, then backs away a bit to get a better view. Gnog rages and runs up to the cacklers and swings once at each. The first is hit for 13 bludgeoning + 5->2; however, this is enough to kill it outright. The next one is hit too for 13 again + 8-4; that one is gone too. He runs to the middle of the three lampooners.

A more serious threat suddenly runs in through the big bone gates - two hellhoun. One runs up alongside Gnog, not quite flanking and breathes fire in a big cone - only Taz is *just* out of range. DC12 dex all round. Gnog, Deni dodge the worst but Fee-Ree doesn't. Deni is unaffected given her strange rogue dodging skills, Gnog takes 22->11->5, Fee-Ree takes 22->11. Now the other one runs up right next to Deni and does the same thing, hitting the same people. We all make the save this time; another 23->11->5 for Fee-Ree and Gnog.

We should perhaps not be surprised at the sudden onslaught of a lot of creatures in an area such as this. We didn't think battle was Rakdos' kink, but who knows how a demon thinks!

A slightly singed and annoyed Fee-Ree, noting that fire and lighting don't do much damage, manages to *just* get enough distance in a sprint to line up the second hellhound and all three lampooners. "Right. Let's light up this place!" and a small dot of light appears in her hand; she wraps it around her staff as it trails out until she eventually shoots out a radiant blast, 60ft long, catching all four. Sunbeam. 6d8->24 (the low side of the half way point sadly); the hellhound is caught off-guard, as are all three lampooners. A remarkable result. They're all still up, but they're looking rough and they're blinded too; Fee-Ree emanates a spectacular sunlight, in a 30ft radius. Gnog shouts, "Not bad, Fee-Ree!" - no wild magic surges, either.

She shouts back, "I'm not done yet!" - and uses two sorcery points to speed up a casting of Eldritch Blast, one each at the lampooners; the first two hit and the third *critically* hits. All three are wiped out. Gnog now shouts, "Well that's great but you're showing off now (!)".

Rakdos' minions aren't done showing off either. Emerging from the shadows using a reaction - it had been there all the time - appearing in a wreath of flame and strong sulphurous smell is a Cambian - a demon, wings unfurled, 30ft up in the air. Looking closer, the wings seem to be made of bone and blood - however it flies, it's not with those! They're for show (and very effective in that regard). Its eyes flare with fire. It looks over at the three of us - it seems to ignore Taz for some reason, maybe it knows about Vi's charm protection ring? - and tries to use Fiendish Charm on Gnog. It knows he's had experience with Rakdos before. The Cambian looks enticing and friendly - somehow, Gnog thinks, hot, like *really* hot - "Come now. You **know** you want to come with me. Leave these boring, curmudgeonly people behind. You're already half way over the threshold!"

DC14 Wisdom save. Dirty 20 - lucky roll - and Gnog's immune to its charms. Gnog shouts back, "Sorry, but I'm already spoken for by a certain incubus and succubus" - it calls back, "WELL THEN WE DON'T WANT YOU!" and throws rays of fire. The first goes wild, the demon too angry, the second hits but only does 9->4 damage. Gnog shouts, "That tickles!". "Well, then, I'll show you something ELSE that tickles" and it screams out some kind of fiendish word. There is a smashing, thumping noise coming from within Rix Maadi... Emerging, a Blood Fray giant. It is covered in chains and hooks, full BDSM leather git, a gimp mask, incredible, huge, bulging, impossibly good muscles and Gnog would've in truth been **VERY** into it but its skin is bleeding and torn, and there seem to be strange grafts upon its body to make it look more demonic. It doesn't look in great. It shows burn damage too. Gnog quickly assesses that this isn't a creature which wants saving from its condition; it is evil and this way by choice. One of its forearms is missing, replaced by a series of hooked chains that it swings around. It's a perfect example of a Rakdos "gone too far" moment.

It gets to melee range easily and attacks Gnog straight away. This is a *much* more serious foe, but Gnog is smaller and quicker and on this occasion manages to dodge both attacks (13 and 18 vs AC 21). Two more cacklers jump off its back, one shouting "It's most hilarious, don't you think?" and one casts Hideous Laughter on Taz. He just scrapes it via Built For Success (5+5+anything-matches-DC-11). The other goes for Deni again but this time she resists.

Just before Deni is about to act, a *witch* appears out of a strange shroud of shadow. It reminds us all of the Shaowfell in its appearance. She becomes visible behind the giant, wreathed in shadows that look like serpents. Gnog shouts, "Ah, now, wait a minute, we've an agreement with you lot...!" "What is all this commotion? How dare you take souls without my permission!" - she hexes Gnog, sapping his strength - disadvantage on any strength-based check, and he can feel it - it's very strange and disconcerting - but he thinks he can still hit hard with a weapon, given the dexterity skill that's involved there too. But now, she casts a strange spell to make him dance! DC15 Charisma saving. It's not even a spell, it's an innate ability, so Fee-Ree is about to try and counter-spell but realises she can't. Gnog rolls very luckily 19+3, so he doesn't get affected, but Gnog can see by looking at her that she seems to not be weakened by this... He shouts, "She can do that as often as she likes!" to warn the party. "Keep away from the fires! She'll try to send you in!"

This is turning into a quite serious fight - we are somewhat out of depth against this level of spell casting. Our team is optimised for a different kind of enemy.

Deni gets insight on the witch for fighting. She has to risk it, so can't disengage and steps away from the nearby hellhound and cackler which get opportunity attacks - the cackler does 7 damage with a spiked chain (Gnog forgets he has Sentinel here!); the hellhound tries to bite and *just* matches her AC and ends up doing 10 damage (fortunately her outfit provides some fire damage). Deni considers it a worthwhile exchange; she's free of interference and attacks the Blood Witch. Crit! 21+21+23. Disappointing, very low rolls (21+23 -> 44, 16d6 was possible 96) -> but it's still 65 damage. In retribution the Blood Witch uses Hellish Rebuke, fire shooting forth, but Deni dodges all damage (Dex save successful). The witch is infuriated.

Suddenly, in a moment of tricky, the witch vanishes, replaced by a lampooner. We're fairly sure she's just hiding and that the lampooner is a new arrival. The lampooner starts to rattle off all sorts of strange recitals which confuse us (it casts Enthrall). All four of us need to make wisdom saving throws, but we're fighting these creatures so we all have advantage. DC14.

* Gnog 20+3
* Taz 18+5
* Deni 22
* Fee-Ree 22

We all roll high and the spell has no effect. It seems as if it was going to try and follow up the spell with something if anyone failed, but we didn't fall.

Taz is up. To our surprise he pulls out his (cheaper) dulcimer and strums, saying, "This is a song I like to call, 'Fuck all you evil demons'" and proceeds to sing a potentially highly offensive ditty about our opponents. One early verse particularly bardic-inspires Fee-Ree.

Gnog wants to thin the numbers of lower-level fiends to give his party more solid targets for their high-damage actions. He swings once at a nearby cackler and once at the uninjured hellhound next to him. The cackler is hit for 15+2->17; the cackler goes down but the huge giant seems to rise into a fury in reaction, and it swings its chain at Gnog who, caught off guard, hits for 3d6+6 -> only 10 bludgeoning, but Gnog is now restrained by the chains. He'd be disadvantaged against the hellhound and knows attacks on him are now much more likely to hit, so goes full 80s barbarian and attacks the hellhound recklessly instead (negates disadv.) for 15+8 damage (the lighting +8 not halved).

In retaliation, the hellhound attacks back. Surprisingly it misses - in one case because it actually bites the restraining chains themselves. The other hellhound runs up in front of Denia and breathes fire, hitting both Deni and Taz this time. DC12. Deni makes it, Taz gets exactly 12; he just manages to dodge the worst - 18->9.

The Cambian tries Fiendish Charm on Fee-Ree, promising her heart's desire; to reunite with Arxis, ruling the district with him at her side, retribution for Niv Mizzet. DC14 -> she only gets 13, but with Taz's earlier bardic inspiration, she is able to resist. The once-again angered Cambrian throws fire rays at her. Taz sees it coming; Silvery Barbs. (This turns a crit into a hit), 9->4 damage for Fee-Ree. She holds onto her Sunbeam spell.

Fee-Ree knows this creature was foul enough to try and use Arxis against her; but for Taz's song in her ears, it might even have succeeded. She moves alongside Deni, crouches down and shoots her sunbeam right through the nearby hellhound, giant and Cambrian. Potential damage 25. The hellhound dissolves into radiant sunlight; the Cambian just fails and takes full damage - and amazingly (thanks to rolling a 2) does too. Slightly depressingly, this makes both of them look a *bit injured*. Ooooh dear. They're blinded briefly, at least. Fee-Ree now brings up a Chromatic Orb, casting Lightning and routing through Lennithon's staff using 3 charges for 3d8 additional damage through the focused storm she is creating. She burns Tides Of Chaos for advantage in the attack too. She hits - 10d8 damage potential - a good roll finally, 57. This takes a more noticeable chunk out of the giant!

Gnog is impressed, but he can see that this has taken a toll on Fee-Ree; no wild magic surge, though. He's worried about that on her behalf in this place, as he's not sure how "thin" the veil is here.

The giant acts. It can't attack anyone else easily as it has Gnog restrained in its forearm chains. It's blind, so its easiest move is to try and squash Gnog; 18 damage -> 9. There's a nearby Cackler still up which tries once again to get Taz with Hideous Laughter; but his own countercharm helps him. Taz with advantage rolls 1,6+5 -> scrapes in 11, matching the DC; there is no effect. The cackler, angered, runs up to Taz to get to melee range and attacks with a spiked chain. It bounces off the casing, ineffective (12 vs AC 18).

The Blood Witch reappears - we'd almost forgotten about her - off to one side, a short distance from the giant. "That is *quite* enough, all of you!"; her eyes turn to a dark shadow and she looks at Deni directly. "YOU. You, child. You have messed with the wrong thing." She casts Circle Of Death centred on Deni; but it has a wide range and easily encloses the whole party. DC15 con save, else 8d6 -> 26 necrotic.

* Gnog 26
* Taz 20+1->21
* Fee-Ree adv. 19+9->28 and holds Sunbeam
* Deni 15 (just scrapes it)

The circle, though, affected the other creatures too. The remaining hellhound and cackler are killed outright. The Cambian, even, is caught and takes the full impact. The giant takes half; the lampooner too.

Deni's up. She aims at the Witch - "Hardly a scratch. You're about as threatening as a Red Panda!" - rolls 19, not *quite* a crit -> 12 + 29 -> 41 total. The witch makes one last blood-curdling scream and throws all of her remaining life energy into a blast of fire, hurtling at Deni - one last Hellish Rebuke, 3d10 -> 20, Dex save DC15, Deni rolls a 1 but still has Bardic Inspiration; she only rolls a 2, so it's not enough, but she gets 7 temp HP. It's inelegant and not what she would've hoped for, but the net damage given fire resistance then is only 20->10 - 7->3 relative damage; and the witch is down.

The lampooner casts Crown Of Madness on Gnog. DC15 wisdom saving, with advantage from Taz's ongoing song, and he succeeds (22). Taz on his turn redoubles his efforts in song, opting - given the crowd's obvious pleasure in the lyrics prior - to be even more offensive and profane. He rarely gets an excuse to be thus. He grants some inspiration to the still-restrained Gnog.

Gnog decides to keep his 1980s barbarian recklessness and attack despite restraint. He attacks the giant twice. Total 20 damage from the maul and lightning. That's all it needed - surprisingly, the Blood Fray Giant collapses. Gnog (athl. check 16) jumps out of the falling chains and over the falling giant, runs up to the lampooner, swinging the maul again; it connects, with a total damage of 25 that takes the creature down. Only the Cambian remains, and Gnog's within jump-fly distance.

In response, the Cambian puts everything into fire rays that blast at Gnog. The first hits, the next misses. 14->7 damage. It tries one last thing; a one-word command is spoken - "Drop!" - Gnog would succumb, but with the inspiration of Taz's song ringing in his ears, he just manages to resist (DC14 wisdom save, rolled 11 plus inspiration D8->5).

Fee-Ree shouts, "Go back to the hell from which you came!" and directs the sunbeam at the Cambian, but it's not great damage. The Cambian takes the full force, but it's only 13 damage and it stays up. "Argh! Deni. Over to you!"

Deni tries to gain insight on the Cambian; but she fails. She manages to get a hit, but there's no advantage; only 1d8+9, no sneak. 14 damage. Deni says, "Argh! Taz. Over to you!"

Taz tries Eldritch Blast; one misses wildly (nat 2) the other misses also (nat 8) so the AC is very high. This is surprising. Taz gives inspiration to Gnog. "Argh! Gnog. Over to you!"

Gnog, still raging, jump/flies up, and recklessly swings twice. He hits on the first swing; damage 12, lightning only 1; he doesn't have to swing again - the Cambian is killed. Gnog tries to land cleanly - but again, very bad roll, nat 2 for 12. He's about 25ft up when his flying ends and falls badly. 5 damage -> 2. "Ouch!"

We do a bit of mending and healing; Taz is still a bit beaten up but definitely better off (amazingly bad rolls there, 4x hit dice via Mending, but rolls 1, 1, 2, 6) and he uses the dulcimer to heal up Deni for 27 (very good rolls). Fee-Ree and Gnog will be OK for now.

### 2650XP each taken as 1480 for the 3 of us - LEVEL 16 - 6160 for Taz arises.

Gnog runs up to Taz and pats him on the back casing. "*Very* well played, Mr Tablabu", then to the rest of his party, "A very difficult fight. Not in our wheelhouse. I mean not to patronise when I sincerely say, excellent work everyone... We should now consider our options. I think my decision to come here might have been folly, but here we stand anyway. Horrors greater than those we've already seen lie beyond the doors. We know not if Rakdos has anything of interest to say, or even if we can trust his words either way. So we vote. Proceed, or retreat?"

Fee-Ree points out that she's used a *lot* of resources. She's only got a single high-level spell left; that would need saving for Teleport. The others are low level. We are OK on HP more or less; Taz is alright for resources, Gnog is fine, Deni is OK. We all vote simultaneously so nobody is pressured. Gnog votes to keep being stupid and head down, or at least explore further. Taz likewise. Fee-Ree advises caution and votes against. Deni votes yes, but on condition; Teleport must be kept in reserve and we must keep close to Fee-Ree to keep her safe. We all agree that if we get into another battle, we bail and jump out straight away.

We approach the strange gates of Rix Maadi.

**On the wide floor outside, Gnog pauses. He asks Taz to play a tune. A waltz maybe. Something beautiful. He invites Fee-Ree to dance - to break the tension and break the mood. He wants to send a signal to Rakdos; he should have seen he cannot break or coerce us. He might force us to fight, but we won't go beyond that; and, more, we can bring beauty here.**

Some on the terraces higher up pay some attention, but many ignore and carry on in their carnal pleasures. Hot, dry air blows out from the gates. Other revellers start to resume their chaotic - well, whatever it is they're doing! - activity? - around us soon enough. It fills in the gaps left after the battle. We finish our short dance and head through the gates.

The interior is almost like a palace foyer, except the walls are covered in charred, burned, ripped and defaced tapestries and huge oil paintings, smeared with blood or tar. Chains and hooks hang from the ceiling in a few places. A few have bodies hanging, apparently alive. But more than that - all around is chaos. "Things" are happening *everywhere*. All around the area are maybe 500 demons spilling out from every corner. There's so much choas that we can't focus on any one thing. Gnog says, "Theoretically, Rakdos is about carnal pleasures, taken to extremes; but this looks as much like any vision of a hell of an eternal suffering as I could imagine. It seems almost indistinguishable."

From where we are, the path ahead is unclear. There are numerous exits from here, with no indication of where we might go. The space is maybe 180-200ft per side, rising at least two stories with balconies/verandas above, with archways. It's hard to tell what we're even looking at. Almost at random, we try to head directly straight forward to an opposite door. Gnog survival 16+7 (Deni isn't tall enough to see over the throngs) - we make it roughly where we were hoping to get; the entrance opposite the "main gates". It's just for bearings really; there are many exits/entrances along this wall - archways everywhere.

Gnog athletics - with disadv. to help his party - to push across the space; 17. We hold onto each other. Throngs of demons push up against us. At one point, we see Deni pushing against people who are trying to pull Deni away. Gnog manages to pull her back in. Individually, we all take 16 points of bludgeoning damage - it's *that* crazy in there. Gnog: Perception 15. He just about manages to keep an eye on his party, but we realise that it's mostly through luck that we hold onto everyone.

We finally get into the next room. It's a different room, but even more chaotic. It's a garden of some sort, in a courtyard. There are terraces that ascend and descend in different sections. The courtyard has a fountain of blood. Vines on the ground pulse with what looks like flourescent blood and react to our feet. Turning to face us, as we come in, but only momentarily, are various creatures who are now aware of our presence clearly; some fly, as if insects but much larger; fiends perhaps, in swarms. They're focused on the fountain, perhaps drinking from it. The larger beings lounging around it are doing so too. We realise they are Cambians - about six of them, with various human supplicants - charmed perhaps; dazed or tranced? - all around. A Blood Witch with impressive crown of thorns and bones arching upwards attends to them. Gnog warns Fee-Ree that we might need to teleport out very soon; but calls out to the Blood Witch, "We seek Rakdos. Where is he to be found."

Cackling laughter echoes out from the centre of the room. The blood witch says, "Simple, SIMPLE minds. Of course you seek Rakdos. Every single one of the million souls is seeking Rakdos. Why do you think we are here? What do you think these spectacles are for? What spectacle do you offer? What sacrifice do you give? Not to me; I will take what I need and sacrifice whatever I need for his attention, too..." - she grabs a human that'd been huddled besides her and slices through its throat; the Cambians howl and shriek and the fiends dive down; the human bleeds out into the fountain. She plunges her hands in. Taz, Arcana 22; she's performing a blood ritual and feeding the source of her magical energy. It's drawn from lifeblood. It's how she channels her power. Taz, insight 22 - "what's this all about?" is his basic thought and question - the chaos in here is not as chaotic as it might first appear. It's all designed around each group trying to outdo another. They want to outcompete the rivals. He's seen that on the way in too. It's escalating by design. Gnog and Taz discuss it briefly. We have an idea.

Taz asks the blood witch what we might do to help. If they help us, we help them. Persuasion nat 20+13 -> 33. The blood witch approaches; her fingernails come out and pierce his casing. "You cannot be afraid! You have no blood; you have no heart. You could bring me sacrifices. We could rise above the others with a blood sacrifice into the history books. One Rix Maadi has ever seen. We will fill these halls with the warm pulse of life taken. Surely then, THEN, Rakdos will appear to us!" She rants on like that a while. Taz asks, "Wait, how long has it been since he last appeared to anybody?" - Taz insight 19+5->24. There is a pause; they're looking to each other. Thinking hard. There is debate. One says they've seen him recently. Obvious lie. None have seen him. Taz figures nobody in the room has ever laid eyes on him. Part of the reason why things are escalating out of control is because Rakdos is not appearing - *at all* - perhaps isn't even here or is otherwise prevented or otherwise distracted.

This could be at the root of this entire guild's escalation.

"We know" says the witch, "that he simply slumbers. He's simply bored of us. He's in his chambers, he is!" "Where are his chambers?" "Ha! I am no fool. I do not wish to be consumed by his waking nightmares. But if *you* wish to lose your mind... Who am I to stop you? Be my guest. Follow down the stair to his lair..." - and she points back out of the door we came through - "...in the heart of Rix Maadi is the stair that goes seemingly nowhere; but follow it long enough, if you hold onto your mind, you will see the lock that can only be opened by the sacrifice of true love. *Then* you will behold Rakdos. But I will not go with you."

Insight on that is that it could be true, but she's got no idea. She's reciting lore. A poem. Something she's been told.

Who last impressed him enough to lift him from his slumber? **Hekara** is the head of his blood witches; where is Hekara's domain? Deep. Deep in Rix Maadi. She runs the kingdom in Master's absence.

We can't think of much else to ask. The party wonders if anyone down here even have minds that reflect Rakdos; Deni points out that they're not involved or interested in being so. They don't care about anything on the surface. We've got some insight into the escalation down here and some indication that Rakdos hasn't been around for a while. Deni looks around. "Unless he's an enigma or a sphinx, I'm not sure that he has anything to say - *this* is his domain. Nothing here is logical or linked to anything other than itself; it's entirely inward-looking."

Gnog agrees. Even if Rakdos were to speak to us and tell us, in his mind, tell us exactly what was going on, the actual words would probably be so twisted and convoluted that we'd never understand it. **Everyone here is lucidly insane**. We realise that it's perhaps only Taz's occasional tunes and humming that have been holding us together. Time to leave. Gnog gets that pit-of-stomach fear. "Let's go. Fee-Ree? Can you"

Fee-Ree holds onto Deni and Gnog and casts Fly; she asks Taz to hold on; he wants to use his dulcimer, but it's just too crowded to even use it, so Gnog does his "American Football" thing with Taz again and we're hoisted skyward. This lets us fly up over the main room crowd, which attracts imps which chase us; we get through the gate; straight up. We get to the entrance at the top of the stairs and push out into the main Gore House room, and don't stop running until we're out the door. The fire dancers and sword-swallowing is still going on and then we see the lampooners amongst them; we recognise now the vortex of madness drawing people down; we keep running, and we don't stop until we're at the library in P5.

It's very late. There's one person on the desk. "Late night study? A few of you tonight!" and Gnog says, "after a fashion - actually looking for some shelter and safety, a room?" We pay a zino. We're handed a card with a room number. Behind is the key. We head there directly. There are a lot of students in tonight. Some make illusions. Some ineffectual flirting between teenagers. Some study. Some tell stories. Study for exams, perhaps; Deni thinks that's it. It's as stark a contrast as we could easily imagine.

At the room - a nice room as usual - three beds and a chair again. Gnog sits on a bed. Looks at Deni - "you OK?" "I could do with a bath!" "Yeah, go for it". "Can someone come with me?" Fee-Ree goes along. Gnog and Taz are alone and Gnog kneels down in front of Taz and says, "we would have not been killed there without you, but I perhaps think worse - lost our minds, lost our souls, lost everything. Without you we'd have been done for. You saved us all, and I will always be in your debt for that."

We've never needed anyone in that way before. Someone who can keep us *sane*. A reminder of who we are.

Taz isn't quite sure how to take that, and almost looks awkward; unsure how to respond, "You'd do the same for me and you've saved me before. I've learned from you all. It's what we do for each other. Fee-Ree said. Family."

Fee-Ree and Deni come back. Deni sits next to Taz, takes his hat which has been damaged; she and Fee-Ree start making repairs. Taz's casing has holes from the witch's talons and dents in the casing. Over time, he's repaired and polished up.

Gnog has a bath too and when he's done comes back to finish polishing and cleaning up Taz. Fee-Ree cleans herself in the way that a dragonborn does - she has scales. There are some changes of clothes; even Deni drops out of her armour and Gnog changes into his clothes of mending. Out of the corner of his eye, Gnog notices Deni slide two daggers under the pillow. He says to her, "I shouldn't encourage that, but under the circumstances, probably a good idea..."

Deni suggests we should look up as much as we can about Rakdos and the cult in the morning. Things down there were insane. Many people weren't willing - they were *charmed*. Just murder, dressed up as some kind of choice. She also suggests we return the book; it's overdue that we talk to the Dimir and Deni doesn't want to leave the confines of the library for a while.

### Taz: Additional 1000XP for dealing with the Blood Witch.

Gnog runs down to reception and returns the book, then comes back up and we all sleep.



## Day 37 (Riglan 74 - 6 hours shifted forward) - local day Sunday (7 day week)

In the morning, we're at Level 16! Gnog finds that he is a little wiser and more resilient to spells that affect is mind. Fee-Ree says she's figured out a way to get her fire spells past resistances in our enemies. Deni says she thinks she's picked up a few things now from watching Taz's rituals and reckons she could set up something like an alarm given enough time, or even maybe find a pet! Gnog is sceptical so to prove it, she digs around in the Bag Of Holding, finds a few things including some incense and after a while, to our surprise, a mouse appears!

Fee-Ree says it's a Familiar. Gnog's aware of the idea and says Deni can now experience what he's been able to do - she too can now see through another creature's eyes. The mouse is small, cute, reddish-brown with shining black eyes.

Deni asks Taz if she can borrow the L3 Tiny Hut scroll to copy. Of course! It doesn't use it up and we don't need it right now, it seems. Taz is fascinated by the mouse and keeps asking questions about it - does it need food, or does it not; he finds out it doesn't and feels a curious kinship with this strange creature. She'll spend most of the day - after breakfast! - copying the spell while we research Rakdos and keep eye out for any Dimir contacts lurking around. Gnog pays 150gp out of party funds - we know she has that herself but it feels "right" to get it from party funds.

We focus our research on sightings of Rakdos, appearances, evidence he's even still on this plane. Investigation led by Taz, as ever, adv. unfortunately ratshit roll - 1,3+4 -> only 7! It takes ages, over an hour, to eventually find something, but at least we do. Very old history. We stumble across more information about the creation of the guild pact. Rakdos was drawn to this plane, claims the book, for its potential - a huge influx of humanoid colonists entering the world, who were afraid and unsure; with the clash of cultures between those already here who worshipped the megafauna as gods and the new arrivals, Rakdos saw much opportunity. Razea of course came along in pursuit. The sphinx Azor and Niv Mizzet, who were kind of masterminds of how the Guild Pact might work, figured that one of the best ways to harness the brutal clashes between Razea's forces and Rakdos' forces was to give them a role within what became the pact. Razea of course said she'd take law and order, be the protector and server of justice. Azor and Niv decided though that she was too battle-inclined, given history, to put her in charge of law; so that went to the Azorious instead. Razea got Boros.

This left Rakdos in opposition to two guilds, though, so he fiercely declined to take part. He wasn't even the head of any guild - just a very powerful demon who revelled in sowing discord and amusing himself through creation of chaos. **His followers are the guild**. They merely hold Rakdos as their "ideal". Rakdos, though was tricked by Azor and Niv into accepting the role of Parun of the Guild of Rakdos, and his followers were brought in as members of the Guild Pact as a result. It came down, we think, to there being nobody within the existing cult to be powerful enough to become a Parun, which would've led to that cult being excluded from the Guild Pact, outlawed, chased and eliminated. At least, that's what Azor and Niv managed to make Rakdos believe. It left Rakdos with no choice, but he's always resented the restrictions and constraints on his power arising.

As long as the angels remained on Ravnica, he had to remain there, due to the Guild Pact constraint; it was part of balance. Since the Guild Pact was reformed, and since things aren't yet completely broken and in chaos, Rakdos *must* still be here. **Hekara's** name comes up - she was the champion selected by the cult for the Impicit Maze; and we know that Rakdos was definitely around back then, so only few decades ago. More writings then talk about Rakdos' descent into slumber, where he would not emerge from his chambers / lair. The cult intended to expand Rix Maadi and ultimately clash with the Golgari underground. The Golgari were more or less told they could have all of underground, while pushed away from the surface.

* Rakdos: Entertainment, levity and criticism. That explains the "play" we saw. Sort of.
* Golgari: Recycling - and that's more or less all. Renewing resources.

Rakdos it seems has the least organisation of any with significant information. Numerous cells are led by high-level demons or Blood Witches. The latter are magic users who have sacrificed enough people and harvested their blood in the name of Rakdos, to be "noticed" by him and granted magical power through him. In essence, they are all warlocks with Rakdos as patron. For them to exist at all, Rakdos must've had some involvement. The slumber stuff, if true, is very recent; last decade or three; but not perpetual. He's lazing around, in seclusion, not in a coma. Nothing catches his eye enough. We weren't up the task of that, but given what we saw happening that wasn't enough either, we're glad of it. Perhaps that was our mass-murderer future! An attempt, in some branch of future, to gain favour for whatever reason. Who knows.

Afternoon investigation: 2,19+4 -> 23. We're in the groove. There's stuff from the Implicit Maze era that catches our eye again. Rakdos does apparently appear sometimes for the big meetings of Paruns. He left Guild Pact meeting which voted Jace as the living Guild Pact in disgust, when he declared that "this was the devious plan of the architects all along". It's ironic, because actually nobody expected it and even his own champion voted for Jace. It was unanimous.

A young elf comes up asking to take the book we're reading. We've finished, so we hand it on. She gives us another book in exchange - "maybe you'll find this interesting?" and swaps it. We leaf through carefully looking for a note or indication of some kind. A flyer is between two pages is present and Gnog notices that it has pinpricks in it which when held to the light give us letters and numbers that lead to a shelf. We go to let Deni know and find that she's actually finished - it's about 3pm, we started early and breakfast was quick - so we all head to the bookshelf. Deni immediately (yep, she's back LOL) sees a mark and finds a small piece of rolled up paper in a thieve's code that she can figure out. The scrying pool, apparently. They know we know! Off we go. We take care at the entrance to not be observed going through.

It's dark down there; Taz can see and we have various lights. Deni lets her mouse run ahead. She stops at one point, and tells us that there's someone at the pool but doesn't think they're a threat. Gnog draws his greataxe anyway, resting it over his shoulder all chilled-out-like! We get there and find a short Vedalken, not the tall kind we've seen before. Maybe 5ft tall. Similar skin, maybe darker. She tells Gnog to put away his axe. Grumpily, Gnog complies - he was enjoying rocking the leather-and-axe look!

Deni looks around. Gnog notes that she's looking closely in a certain way; she'd explained once that she had gained an ability via experience to see invisible things, illusions, hiding things, even to the ethereal plane. General deception. He's reminded how much our months fighting the dragon cult changed us. Gnog says, "All clear?" "Yep. All clear."

The Vedalken was waiting patiently. "I understand you have spoken to one of our cells" "Yes, in a manner of speaking; it's indirectly why we returned the book today." "You have piqued the interest of my handler. I am an informant. Is there anything you wish to speak to me about before I pass you up the chain?"

Gnog asks, "Does the name Tezzeret mean anything to you?" "Yes! We thought you'd ask that." She pulls out a vial; in it glistens a thread - a memory. She takes it out and places it into the pool. We look. It's a slightly blurry, cloudy memory. Walking along the street; hearing a gurgling sound; turning and going into an alley; seeing Tezzeret standing over a slumped body with his arm raised, shimmering with blue energy as his hand changes shape. We recognise Mizzium - with shock Gnog realises he has some kind of Mizzium exoskeleton. He can change the shape. He'd changed his hand into a deadly spike. That's particularly gruesome, somehow; no way for someone to realise their danger. He holds the head of the person he'd killed; his eyes flare blue and we see a strange blur and pattern between their two faces; he's absorbing something; we presume the spirit or soul. The person looking and showing the memory immediately flees and ends up hiding in a barrel on some stairs." - then the Dimir skips forward, as the next bit is boring, just hiding in a barrel! - it resumes as the person emerges, creeps back and goes to look closer. The person wears Izzet engineer overalls. The face is ashen but we recognise the look from the Captain of the airship.

"We have noticed sporadic patterns of this. It happens only to casters of some note" - Gnog can't help but glance at Fee-Ree - "he's harvesting something"... (Gnog thinks, "spark") ..."but whatever he's finding is not enough to sustain him; for whatever reason he's still laying relatively low. He's hit a few high profile - or rather, powerful - old beings; the Voda being the first one. We believe that may even be his first mistake."

Gnog says, "Izzet engineer. Interesting. He's been stealing and gathering red amplification crystals; it's interfering badly with planetary defence at the Nivix. We aren't sure if he's going to use them for bad things himself or just hiding them. Any information on whereabouts of those?" All they know is that they were moved off the platform and since they've been kept in motion, apparently without pattern so far. "Our investigations, well... It is our understanding - not myself responsible for it, that there are whispers amongst a few - that other crucial equipment has been going missing around the city. On its own it wouldn't be alarming but combined could be cause for concern" - Gnog says, "No 'could be' about it. We're sure of *that* now." "But we do not know what he is building or what his plan is. We do however know it has something to do with the Millennial Platform - pieces of equipment have been hidden around it until very recently" - (the scrape marks we saw on the roof of the weather station) - "they also started moving those around the city, like the crystals. We've lost a few of our own. He's certainly aware that we're watching him. **Management is concerned about our involvement!** However, I am instructed to give this to you..."

We are handed four invitations to a gallery opening.

Gnog says "well, it sounds like we need to try and escalate this. Are you aware that Nicol Bolas is behind Tezzeret's intervention, and we think plans to invade this planet wholesale to harvest it?" "Management is no doubt aware. It is not the mandate of my cell. I do not possess authorisations for that. But I can sell you this..."

Another vial is produced - then quickly withdrawn as Deni goes for it! - "50 platinum". Gnog says, "45". "50". Gnog says, "OK, fuck. 50 then!" - he's crap at bargaining. But thing is, we both knew he was able prepared to pay at least 50 anyway.

"If we're dealing with management, there are probably protocols or things we should look for if there is deception or so-on. You're not at any liberty to help us, but if there's anything we should know about dealing with management...?" "A piece of advice - do not worry about protocols with management. That's all handled on their side. You won't see any of the inner workings, background checks or finer details or we would not be doing our job well. Just know that if you're speaking to management you'll know about it - they'll possess pieces of knowledge that nobody else could possibly know." She looks to Deni "and besides, I see you have a sniffer dog of your own..." - Gnog objects to that and asks her to kindly refrain from using such terms lest he draw his axe - "...oh no, it's a compliment; those with skills such as hers are highly regarded in our organisation and rapidly rise to power." And there's what amounts to a job offer, mentioning the name **Lavaz** for Deni.

We're told we can study our 50pp memory here if we want, and we're told how to both extract it for viewing and retrieve it after for storage again - it can be reused. She bows a little to us - and a little more to Deni - and slinks away but just before leaving says, "I'm sure I don't need to tell you - share that with nobody; tell nobody that you have it; reveal its presence to nobody. You did not get it from us." Gnog replies, "We've accidentally got people killed by drawing them into things. That's as much a motivation as we need to keep this quiet."

No time like the present. Gnog gives the vial to Deni, as she's way more dexterous. Taz sings an inspiring ditty to help. She carefully extracts the strand - it's very long - and drops it into the pool.

* We see someone in a messy quarters, junk everywhere; machinery, schematics
* "Right. Is it your turn today?" says the person; a goblin answers, "no, your turn!" and points at a roster. The person gathers a satchel of work tools, grabs two sandwich from a bench - the goblin shouts, "Hey, only one!" and he returns one - then walks away, but then there's a blur of movement as he darts in and grabs a second sandwich when the goblin isn't looking.
* The memory seems to be from a low height character; another goblin probably.
* We recognise the halls now, as he walks out of the room. Nivix. Others around a carrying lots of equipment, all heading up; we're headed to Ral's room. There's a queue as people wait to push things onto a teleportation circle - we're going to Niv's room.
* **WE SEE NIV HERE for the first time**. He towers far over the goblin. All we can really see from the memory is the tail and hind legs. The scales are crystalline but red and blue; sapphire and ruby. Irridescent, giant; larger than any other dragon we've seen except the elders of the dragon council and might even be later, but perspective of the goblin makes that hard. He seems to virtually *fill* the entire chamber. Like him or not, it's breathtaking.
* Other people are here including three Vedalken in Azorious robes. They look exhausted. One is quite frail and sits, one leans against a table; a third just about stands upright but looks shaky. We see various things being unloaded. In one section we see a clamped energy field of some kind with a large red crystal inside. That's the only one we can see.
* The goblin owning the memory is working around the room and at times appears to be sneaking around a bit to overhear bits of conversations out of curiosity. We overhear some disagreements, between people dressed like Ral and Niv, but Niv whenever speaking is very dismissive of any such disagreements. "No, that is of no consequence" - that kind of thing.
* He's also taking to the Vedalken three. It seems they and the Ral-like mages are all disagreeing, in fact. **They're the precogs**. "The vision is unclear, Niv. We don't know the outcomes. There's no consensus." Niv argues that there *is* consensus - the respond "But only at some point in the future, not now! Do you not care how we arrive at that point in future? We need more rest and time" "Trust me. I've been alive for 16,000 years. I know when things are urgent. Do not talk to me about the importance of time! You've no idea what time is! We will speak of this no more. I can see all the threads. **I can see the palace**. The equation is as clear as the stars in the sky. This is the only way that we can prepare our world. This is the best chance we have. And it must happen tonight; we have less than an hour!"
* He's gestured at a large constructed astrolabe, floating pieces of metal orbiting; it's huge; a model of astral sea and planets, the very thing that the star chart maker said couldn't be modelled - and yet here, in 3D magical floating metal, Niv has done just that. "Within an hour, everything will be aligned exactly as in your vision" - Gnog perception 18 - there's one red glowing dot in there, which he draws Taz's attention to immediately. "The palace". **THE RUBY PALACE**. **5 entire systems** are lining up in a row - four, plus the palace itself.
* Niv continues. "I need the energy. Is that assured? Have we tapped into the anchor points?" "Yes, yes Niv, we've tapped into them." Gnog starts to guess that this from 7 years ago. "And you're sure the energy is pointed directly at us?" Niv asks. "Yes, we have someone at the weather station. We have it pointed directly at the base of your tower." Ah - so that's something on the platform. "The energy from the laylines is definitely going to be enough? I need it to hit into the receiver - through this crystal, into the emitter, out of my tower; everything must be aligned. I've no time to set these calibrations myself. Guarantee me on your *life* that you have run these calculations again and again and again. *Nothing* must fail, *nothing* must be out of place." They assure him that this is the case.
* Everyone is dismissed. "Leave the goblins to set everything up; I don't want the rest of you here when this happens. I can't risk the interference of other magic." Even the precogs are sent away, still pleading for him to not proceed but they're dragged to the teleportation circle and transported away.
* A goblin engineer comes to check on Niv, who suddenly looks angry and tired, holding his head. "I'll be fine. Of *course* I will be fine. I merely require a minute to compose myself. The way they interfere with the weave... It taxes me. Once they are far away, I will be back to top form. We have no time to waste. Align all the equipment. Do we have time for a test?" "No, there is no more time." "Then we have but one shot."
* Niv puts scrolls on the wall - the pictures we saw - they are ordered specifically, in a line that matches the system. "The dream of the blue veil confirmed the presence of that individual on that world" they say of Fee-Ree. Gnog says out loud, "Damn, seven years ago it was all lined up and the palace was *right there* if only we'd known..."
* It's amazing how long this memory goes. It was a long strand but we didn't expect this; the goblin leaves the tower to run errands, into frenetic hallways and concern from goblins who are worried that some calculations show small deviations but mages and engineers above them dismissed it, sweeping things under the rug; too late; everything will be fine - there are tolerances...
* Some goblins start to argue; they think things aren't calibrated right and must be fixed; a couple of goblins look furtive, run off and make some calibrations themselves without being asked. We'll never know if that made things better or worse.
* Someone yells from the teleportation circle calling for some extra materials. Lots of mizzium, conduits and more - at the last minute?! - more energy needed according to last minute calculations due to cloud cover. The millennial platform is required but cloud means that energy transfer from it to Nivix is reduced. In fact, the platform itself was designed to tap into the laylines. That's why its anchor points are where they are. It's not, perhaps, quite what its own designers realised - Niv had a hand in all this. All the permits and approvals were steered towards this outcome. The plan must've been in the works for decades.
* Extra materials are hurriedly brought in, hoping to boost the inbound energy because they decided against taking more from the leylines. Niv knew the limits, then.
* It happens. A mechanical counter set up by Niv glows red. Everything is set in motion; a flurry of operators following procedures; levers pulled, energy beam slamming into the tower; it shudders heavily; a tiny piece of equipment not quite bolted properly into place starts to slide out of alignment; goblins run and try to push it back, some being struck by the beam and vaporised. "Keep everything in place! I need this to last a few seconds more!" screams Niv, throwing out telekenisis spells to try and help hold things together. The IPB fires. The beam shoots up directly. We can *see* it. We can *see* it punch through reality - the layers of it - five layers, a beam of light piercing through them all.
* We actually see Kaya's family as the beam rips into a storage area nearby; a strange implosion occurs; energy is drawn in - but *not life force* - that wasn't the IPB.
* It sears across grasslands, ripping a hole in the ground.
* A huge floating mountain is hit and ripped asunder, revealing crazy, alien-like artefacts floating in the sky, polyhedral - as if the mountains had formed around them - the strange creatures start to expand out, but we realise in horror that people were living on those mountains and are falling to their deaths.
* A wooded, misty forest; the beam slams into a house. Gnog has to see through eyes blurred by tears.
* Finally, the ruby palace is struck dead-on. A whole chunk of its wall explodes out.
* Suddenly, the whole building the goblin is in begins to list and tilt; energy in the beam begins to falter; but we see parts of the ruby palace being sucked through into the four realities in between, shards ripping into them; but things totally lose stability as the a huge explosion shakes things apart, the memory goblin runs towards Niv as a globe of invulnerability is cast along with others spells that seem to be trying to hold things; the dream falters and breaks; the memory ends - the goblin passes out. Must've lived though for the memory to be taken.

The memory in the pool fades. We stand in shocked silence for a while. After a moment Deni very carefully pulls out the memory and coils it back into the tube.

Gnog is, for once, lost for words. He just takes Fee-Ree's hand, says "come on then", and we head out and up, back to the library, just in silence, lost in thought. Deni is watching Fee-Ree, trying to judge her state of mind. She scouts ahead. We get back to the library and go to our room.

Deni feels a bit awkward goes to get some evening food, perhaps feeling awkward.

Gnog sort of clears his throat and says, "Fee-Ree, before, I've always tried to be upbeat and hopeful about Arxis' chances. And at first, when we saw that, I thought I was wrong. Maybe you did too. On two of those worlds, everyone around Niv's target died. Possibly thousands, in those mountains. But then, I thought, we never saw what happened under that grassland. And we didn't see inside the house either. We saw goblins getting in the way of the beam and we saw it causing tremendous physical damage, and we heard Niv complain about spellcasters and disturbance of the weave. So then I wondered - you were the wildcard - maybe the spell that you thought killed him, actually saved him. Maybe Niv intended to just wipe him out, right then, who knows, but you were casting and it screwed up the effect. We all saw him pulled somewhere at Seraphina's pool. And now we have line of planets, places we saw ruby shards being pulled as the beam faltered and seemed to draw back. We have trail we can follow and even pinpoint locations on worlds where we could start."

Gnog's not quite right. Niv didn't know what the beam would do. The precogs couldn't see. They warned him; but he just didn't care. All that mattered was the outcome - all four on Ravnica. And if Arxis had just died, Fee-Ree would've had no motivation to search. Whether by design or accident, then, we agree that Arxis - at least at the time - needed to have lived, else no motivation to come.

Niv's IPB was not responsible for the Xarixian destroying of planets, we know that; and while we know that they're involved with the Infinite Consortium, their planetary destruction might just be a side-hustle that's unrelated to what we're dealing with on Ravnica. We noted no literature, unsurprisingly, about them at all in the library.

Deni returns with food. Gnog just says, "Thanks" and then after a pause - "we're OK". The food is on, says Deni, edible plates! They're from the university; they're a kind of thin, crispy bread with thinly-sliced food and sauces on top. It's almost a circular open sandwich. (It's pizza, is what it is).

We examine the Dimir invitations. The gallery is in Whitestone, P2, opening in two night's time. We could perhaps make our way to P2 and stay there overnight, then kill time with stuff until that evening. The question of Zonot Seven is raised. We don't know anything about it. We go to the library foyer Taz asks the person on duty if there are ways in, transport, breathing etc. - they're not sure about the underwater bit, but suggest that we head to the above-water parts and ask there - the big bridges and walls around, especially to the South.

We notice interestingly Izzet campuses for other kinds of research as we head South of the library. It looks an old cloister of some kind, ecclesiastical. We reach an "overground" area; hanging spires with walkways and bridges criss-crossing and several levels, water pouring down beneath from whatever the under-city river system reaches here. Taz investigation 19+4->23, looking for information or transport. He sees a professor and scribe with ink-stained hands, along with a humunculous running around doing errands nearby. Taz asks the scribe for help finding the **Simic Combine**. We're invited to come with them as they're heading down themselves. We follow.

Just below street-level is a series of chambers; they're going to a research room but point us in the direction of a place where information can be found, so we go there. Various people are milling around; just looks like everyday activity here. It feels quite academic; lots of people carrying papers or scrolls. Taz stops someone and asks the same question; sightseeing opportunity basically. Persuasion 12+13->25. They point towards an archway leading onto a walkway that heads across to a different building. We are currently in a more formal/internal area; we'd probably need to know who we were specifically asking for. So - off we go!

This is more tourist-orientated. There are posters that offer things like viewing Zonot Seven, or travelling down; written for the general public, rather than people "in" the Simic. 25gp (!) gets us down into the underwater complex, on a private cruise. "One of the wonders of the 10th District", says the sales pitch. "Gateway into the underwater world of the Simic Combine, home of Speaker **Zegana**". It's pretty much just a cruise - down and back. We pay a blueish-green aquatic elf, who has gills; they lead us to a half-Vedalken, half-elven kind of vehicle operator. They look amphibious. The vehicle is actually quite beautiful, with a big clear bubble of glass in which we sit and various fins and rotors to make it move. We get seated; it would fit 6, arranged around a circular tea table with refreshments already laid out. We can see around, above and even beneath us if we look under the table or beneath our chairs. The illusion is a series of connected lily pads forming the seating area.

The pilot sits up front in a seat that turns to face forward or turn around and talk to us. They introduce themselves as our guide; apparently tonight is the beginning of the "six day upwelling", part of the cycle of the subterranean oceans, best explained by being shown. The vessel is lowered down on cables until it floats on the surface; quite a long way; then the cables are released. Then the vessel somehow starts to submerge and dives down.

We can see all around where the waterfalls are plunging into the water surface above. Numerous other vessels and swimming humanoids, usually in groups, are all around. We're told to give our eyes a moment to adjust to the different light levels, though it'll be easier for us as we arrived in the evening.

Looking down, we see no bottom. This whole area descends hundreds of feet down; numerous tunnels lead off by sides; various floating pavilions float with pockets of air somehow maintained at a fixed position. There's more vegetation and life than we might've expected and, as we go deeper, much more animal life. It's dimly lit but lots of bioluminescence. Lights are soft from any man-made structures. Huge jellyfish, turtles, rays, sharks and more. We see bubbles and a different coloured, whiter, clearer water; like rapids, air-filled; but flowing upwards and underwater, coming from deep underground. The upwelling. The pilot explains that this happens twice a month, bringing nutrients and life all the way to the surface whenever there is a Zonot (a conduit to the surface air). In those areas at night, new combinations happen - life happens - a chance for "recombinations" as microscopic creatures come into contact with "their cousins from above".

Gnog asks if "Simic Combine" gets its name from this. In a way. They're about the mutations and evolution of life that comes from combination, but there are actually two schools of thought - the pilot subscribes to the upwelling as being the source of this change - a constant cycle of refreshment and renewal. Knowledge and understanding is a means of transforming ourselves to stay within the stream of change. These are the people who are in fact most likely to do the biological modifications. The other school - the "holdfast" principle. This encourages the Simic to promote nature and cling to tradition; we are shown, deeper down, vast forests of sea weed and even coral despite the depth, with other organic-looking structures growing off the side of the zonot and, apparently, underwater mountains. At the base it looks like tree roots, of sorts, on a massive scale. These are the "holdfasts". Cling onto things and resist change by controlling nature, promoting nature rather than changing it. Building and enhancing on what they know, without giving anything old up.

Speaker Zegana must have a difficult time navigating between the two!

Our pilot themselves was once a land-dweller, "restricted to only one plane of our amazing planet" but now gets to see things down here too. "There is so much more down here than there is above, yet most will never know." 

We arrive at "our first stop", the Zonot Seven coral of life. It's a beautiful coral forest formation surrounded by giant kelp. Nestled within are domed, droplet-shaped glass and what initially looks like metal, but on closer looks could perhaps be grown somehow - even bone - structures, connected at various levels; people walk around inside. It's a small village of sorts. The ship is settled into a stable configuration and our pilot serves tea! We gently drift, getting a good view of the village as we go.

They build things like this because not everybody wants to be modified to breathe underwater - holdfasts especially - and also guests can come here. There are rooms that can be booked; it's a good place to get away from it all. "It's a good place to hide", whispers Deni to Gnog. The people here could be researchers, or visitors; poets, thinkers, authors. It's a good place to think. The Izzet aren't the only science and magic researchers - the Simic also do that, by Guild Pact, even if the Izzet act like they're the only ones. The Simic are all about life, biology.

As we have tea, Gnog perception 25: There are some very big creatures down here, in the dim light. "That's a Krasis" says the pilot. We see one that's about 30ft long, with scales and almost armoured plates and what could be long fins but the fins end in webbed claws. It has a long tail and a very large mouth, which is elongated like a crocodile but within a head and with an underbite "pouch" that looks more like a whale. "They're our creations. They are the defenders of the Simic cities. They were part of the Guardian Project, in fact. The ones that we have - the Krases here - are the smaller offshoots of the Guardian Project Krases. Small enough to live amongst us. The large ones live much deeper."

The holdfasts and upwelling had worked together on this, the holdfasts initially thinking they were going to revive the underwater megafauna somehow, e.g. cloning; but the upwelling decided they wanted to perfect and create new creatures based on what they'd seen, so the two sides fell out. But if the megafauna are in stasis, how could there be samples or examples to use? The Simic have access to all underwater cities, long submerged by cities above; the overland cities believe everything is in stasis but in fact *not* all megafauna were trapped, or at least have stayed that way. Some are loose and have been for a while - at least the ones that live underwater.

Next on tour, we go deeper along what we're told is a main river, to see an upwelling source. "I cannot take you as far as another Zonot" we're told, but we see a lot more - in the full dark - from bioluminescent and other strange creatures. The strangeness reminds us of Wildspace. There are labs down here; we see various working areas and even see a Simic breeding pool. They take modified embryos and put them into gestation chambers, allowing them to develop from there; in other areas they are experimenting with cloning and recombination to create new forms of life, modifying traits and maybe behaviour. We keep our moral reservations about that kind of activity to ourselves - people choosing to be changed is one thing. Creatures being created and born as an act of experimentation feels a whole other issue.

We reach a strange, hanging city, that clings onto a cavern roof with a beautiful view down into the twilight ocean around. Bioluminescence all over - some permanent, others caused by sudden movements, e.g. a jellyfish suddenly swimming away. To our surprise, we're led to a chamber and given a way in - apparently, we have quarters here for the night! The next day we'll be taken back up via a different route.

Unexpected! We should've read the small print. It's a remarkable place. We have a room that has a glass window looking out and down. Gnog finds it impressive but a bit nerve-wracking as it feels a bit like falling and, besides, the weight of water on the glass must be significant. We spend time watching the sea. The beds are circular! We are told that dinner is in half an hour. We wander around looking for things that might be more labs or research rather than tourism. Not many in the area we're in - it's just a leisure facility. We *are* shown though a room that generates air; it's full of plants. So it's not like Spelljamming hulls that need new air periodically - it sustains itself.

We spend time chatting to people who seem modified, wondering about why it's done or what the range of possibilities are. Some very muscular looking gardeners tend to plants - some have extra eyes - front, top and back of head. Some have extra pairs of arms. Some have fins down their arms, which seem to give gliding or swimming ability. Some can breathe underwater, while others have what looks like armour-plate scales and sharp protrusions that seem to form natural weapons. They're like guards, but there are not many around.

Servers at the dining room have many arms. It helps carry plates! There's an oval window to an open kitchen behind; it looks like some might have almost augmented senses; extra nostrils, presumably better for smell or taste. Heat resistance. So Gnog asks, which comes first - the career or choice, or modification? We're told that it depends. Some modifications are stumbled across and make people aware of things they can do which are new. Other times, people seek specific modifications that make them better at what they want to do. Our entertainment tonight is apparently an example - **Diva Groduna** - of a particularly impressive case.

There around 16 diners here including ourselves, then 6 more join a little later. A first course is served. On a stage, carefully lit from behind, curtains peel back to reveal the ocean behind. The diva comes forward. She's heavy set, perhaps a half-orc, fantastic headdress dripping gems with a high crown, a wide-shouldered cloak, long gown; all drama. She bows and starts to sing. Her throat widens as she does. It sounds like four gentle voices singing in harmony all at once. The wide-barrel chest seems to house very large lungs which seem to be able to control multiple wind pipes. It's a lilting, if haunting melody, choral; almost whale song, but with tempo. We watch, but see that others continue eating; it's meant to be more of a background thing, apparently. Sometimes she takes a break by having just one or two voices going, then another crescendo. At one stage it rises a lot, more heartfelt; Taz is captivated by it. It's feeling very emotional. Loss and longing; then it shifts into a more major key, rising to a higher register, sounding more of hope and sunlight. Then the voices one by one let a note finish. There is gentle applause. "I will be back after your next course" and descends the stage and the curtains close. Taz wonders off in her direction. We keep an eye on him but don't follow.

She's sat on a sofa, having a drink. "Sorry to interrupt your break but I've never heard anything like that before. It was very good! How did you learn that sort of control?" "Many years of practice! I was lucky; many successful modifications and grafts. Others were not so fortunate. For all three of minute to take and my constitution to withstand the changes - I count myself fortunate. And living proof of the Combine's philosophies." She offers to show Taz the sheet music, seeing that he is a musician. It's a four part melody. "Remarkable", says Taz, "I could perhaps play one and half of another of those with two hands on the dulcimers!" "Well, there is one version with an accompaniment. Perhaps I could hear you play?"

Taz agrees. She takes out another music roll, which has an instrumental addition. Taz has a go at playing as much as he can on the dulcimer. Performance 12+9 -> 21. She asks if he'd like to join her on the next performance; he enthusiastically agrees!

They talk more about music. Likes and dislikes; history of opera in Ravnica; she thinks the underwater performances are much better - it's quieter, the quality of sound and resonance is very different. Then it's time.

The three of us raise an eyebrow when we see Taz on stage, and the two of them get started. Taz rolls only a 2+9 + BFS 4 -> 15, Fee-Ree bends luck to help a bit. Only a 1, so 16. Not his best performance. A bit nervous! She gives him a smile and sings an opening number. Then she stops, to introduce "Young Tazythas here", who is playing the extra *two* melodies for the aria. This gives him a second chance to regroup, and casts Bless on the two of him. Unfortunately he still rolls low with 6+9+BFS 1 -> 16 again, Fee-Ree helps a bit more which drags it up to a 19 and Bless gets it d4->4 to 23, which is hopefully enough to do the singer justice. He sees his family watching, looking proud - in Fee-Ree's case, with a wink that has just a sparkling hint of magic - as Diva Groduna (performance 17+7+2 -> 26) gives a very good performance.

At the end, Fee-Ree and Deni stand to clap, which encourages a few others to join until the room is standing in applause. Groduna leans over to Taz - "well done, I've never had a room stand to applaud before! Thank you for joining me!" "Thank you for having me - sorry I was a bit rusty to start." "Oh, stage jitters, we've all had them. It's about knowing how to shake them off!"

Taz heads back to table (and whispers, "thanks Fee-Ree" on the way past). "What was *that*" says Deni? "That was art" says Taz, with a wink. Deni answers, "that was brave." "It was scary fun" he agrees. "I thought we needed something to cheer us up. What we saw in the pool was, well, quite a lot!"

We head back to the room after drinks. Fee-Ree is digging around in the bag of holding for something and stumbles across the Mizzium Aparatus; the goblins had given it back while we were busy with Ral and we'd forgotten all about it (not written in notes, basically retcon but we'd always intended that at the time, once they started to work within the lab). Taz figures he'll try it out - Vi's ring is great, but now we kind of trust the Dimir and even might *want* mind-reading from them. So he spends a while attuning and realises what it can do, but in so doing realises it carries great risk and he cannot risk trying it here as an accidental firing of a spell such as Thunderwave would almost certainly destroy the window and drown us all.

"In case of emergency, don't break glass" says Taz.

Fee-Ree confesses that our close attention to her happiness, while appreciated for the love it demonstrates, is perhaps a little overbearing at this point. We kind of laugh that off - it's more a reflection perhaps of how we feel the emotion of everything too. It's true, and we know she's OK and very strong; we will try to dial that down. She thinks we need to focus on the actionable, known things instead of speculation - definitely, there is consensus.

She'd like Taz to play, too. Some music in the evenings would be nice. So he strums, idly; kind of making it up as he goes along. Eventually he gets more into it and the second dulcimer is used while he kind of experiments with his two-instrument playing options. It's not a performance; just someone lost in their own moment of music, unworried by the world around - and that's exactly what the rest of us need.

"How are you, Taz?" eventually asks Gnog. "We've been through a lot". Taz thinks a moment, then says, "At first I didn't know you deeply. I perhaps still don't, but as you say, we've been through a lot now. It feels strange to have missed out on so much, so I love all the stories you tell. It fills in blanks. I always want to hear more! But I look at you all now and think of the same word you've used before; family. I saw you watching in the restaurant as the Diva and I performed. It didn't make me more nervous; it made me less so, and not just because Fee-Ree helped me cheat a little. I feel - home. In this group, not in a place."

Eventually, we head to bed. Deni uses her newfound ritual skills to set up an Alarm spell. She also suggests looking for a scroll some time which might help us breathe underwater; she thinks there are such spells; and given where we are now, it's a "might come in handy one day" thing.



## Day 38 (Riglan 75 - 6 hours shifted forward) - local day Monday (7 day week)

We have an odd night. It's not bad sleep, but it's just a question of waking; there seems to be no defined day-night cycle. Taz's natural 6 hour cycle kicks in and he uses the timepiece to figure out when it should be time to wake up, but in practice we kind of stir around that time and wake each other up anyway.

There's a knock on the door - it's the guide. Time to go! Breakfast is served on the craft. Departure is in 20 minutes. Gnog goes to chat to a gardener at the oxygen room - did they get modification for size? They're built. Yes, they did; but it was via breeding pools, rather than a later change. They can swim outside without being crushed by the pressure and can breathe underwater. Helps with exterior maintenance and needed for the kelp gardens. Apparently, some do undergo a chrysalis process to get large-scale changes and they say it's become quite common now, rather than breeding for a specific line of work - that person might discover that the ideal line of work is not great for them. It took time to develop alternatives; and breeding pools are still used, but understandably a later-in-life change is preferred.

At the ship, breakfast is pastries and strange, fresh aquatic fruit; it's good. Pods that are a bit like figs, but grow underwater.

The morning part of the tour involves a couple of stops. We're taken a holdfast location, for balance. It is a merfolk community and laboratory area. If you can't breathe underwater, you can't be part of this. All we can is observe. What of this, we ask, indicates that it is holdfast? We're told to look closely - all are natural merfolk, with no modifications, born this way. They could not survive on land - no legs and can't breathe air. We see some familiar traits - things borrowed by the upwelling half - our guide shows some of these changes, in fact. We are reminded of the Selesnyans - they encourage nature, but in the old, ancient nature ways; the Selesnyans are all about on land and in air, this is all about in the water, which dates back a lot further. They might find surprising alignment with some Gruul thinking, as far as restoring ancient nature is concerned. The guide agrees. They do view the Gruul, and indeed the Upwelling people, as newcomers. Merfolk apparently we original inhabitants when it was covered in ocean. We ask about the megafauna; the ancient merfolk worshipped the megafauna and provide sacrifices - but otherwise, they just kept out of the way. The history here is > 20,000 years and thus a bit blurry. They lived in fear of - but also revered - the oceanic megafauna.They would use sacrifices to appease their "gods" but sometimes they'd be enraged and destroy communities, sending communities on exodus to other locations. Eventually, it's believed that some evolved to live on then-settling boundaries between land an ocean. That, at least, is the story. We wonder, out loud, if these merfolk are in fact the original native humanoid inhabitants of Ravnica. We know that some made it out to land, in theory, but we know that most of the humanoids that we recognise today are via the giants and dragons pathways - immigrants, essentially.

Amongst the Simic, regardless of upwelling vs holdfast philosophies, hold merfolk in high regard. The Speaker herself is merfolk (though considered quite progressive). They don't generally otherwise engage with the rest of Ravnican society. Not surprising if our origin theories hold any water (no pun intended) - the physical barriers exist too; they live in water, very different culture; all of that. The Simic are really the only guild with regular interactions  with them. Most are, apparently, members of the holdfast. Again though that would be unsurprising if the origin theories are even partly correct.

We see them tending to extremely verdant underwater communities; nurseries, gardens; replenishing the oceans. We're told that they know the names of ancient ocean creatures which surface dwellers have never seen. They're said to be fiercely isolationist, while the upwelling group want to interact with and share knowledge with lands above. Mixing promotes evolution.

We return to the surface. This means following back along another branch of the vast underground rivers that connect all these seas, to the sinkhole that is Zonot Seven. The craft rises slowly, stopping occasionally to show us things like a central spire/column of activity where a number of labs are located. We start to see daylight from above. We've been following water that is part of the upwelling, so we witness directly the burst of life at this level as shrimp, fish and more are congregating in their millions to feast on this nutrient-rich stream.

Finally, we're taken to the top. The pilot carefully manoeuvres into position to attach the hooks for the hoisting cables, and we are raised back up to the pavilion above to get back to dry land. "We hope you had an illuminating and restful - hopefully educational! - trip into the oceans with me". We enthusiastically agree; it was more than we had expected. Exceeded expectations. "Share what you have learned - spread understanding and tolerance". Gnog responds, "Always. For all guilds. And now we know more about this one, to do the same."

We head off. It's about 11am. Gnog confesses to the group that he feels an obligation - and yes, of course an attraction but given what we saw below principally, an obligation - to get to the incubus and succubus, if they are still there, at Hellfire Club. Evil or not they were in a fucked up way good to him and he fears they are unaware of just how far things are going below. Might be wrong but either way. 11am seems not the time but the party says they're happy to check by, so we head to the familiar sounds and smells of P4 - coffee and ringbread may be on the lunch menu today! - and get to Hellfire. It is, to Gnog's surprise, open but quiet. We head on in. They're setting up for evening festivities - preparing and cleaning. Gnog makes enquiries. "Ah yes, the twins! They're on the main stage. Head on through."

We go through. The twins are surprised - "Ah, huh! The small giant from another land. How are you, small giant?" Gnog answers "Well, and I gave much thought to your offer and would've taken you up on it, but we ventured below at Gore House, and found things of which you may be aware, but I felt compelled to perhaps describe what we found, in case you are not!"

"Hmm. Speak your mind."

They're coming up to Gnog - and the charm is turned on, which is a little distracting, standing very close. Gnog doesn't mind that *at all* but manages to stutter out, a little embarrassed, that as far as we can tell Rakdos has been absent, perhaps in slumber, for a long time and things have as a result gone to great extremes and continue to escalate. They say they know, and choose to stay up here. A little further away. "Able to govern our own domain somewhat, really only interested in this aspect of it for now. The subtleties. Hints and suggestions. The realm of devils!" they both laugh. "The somewhat unhinged chaos down there holds no interest." Gnog responds, "I am relieved; I thought your invitation to your domain was perhaps to Rix Maadi, and having seen how out of control that is, it seemed like a death wish for us all."

"To each their own, but surely you cannot deny the appeal of the wild tastes down there?"

Gnog answers, "Truthfully, at first, I expected to; but then I saw many who were not of sound mind. Not there by choice. We all saw callous murder, one person's pleasure, twisted or otherwise not mine to judge, but when at the cost of another - torture, insanity, death and *not* by choice - then it became a different thing and, no, not attractive. Not in any way."

The succubus says, "But that's just a lack of finesse! When you understand what someone truly wants, it doesn't take much for them to believe that it's what they wished to happen all along. It just needs a little nudge. But I agree - there's a lack of skill down there. A lack of guile. A lack of game!"

Gnog can't deny, "Beautifully put. And for myself, if truthful, I still want to explore further - much further - with the two of you if the chance arises."

"But you've seen where that road goes and you're afraid of it. Unwilling to truly explore the depths of your mind and heart. Perhaps you saw it too soon and do not understand the road that takes you there? For you will if you follow this path with us see the truth."

"Ah, well," says Gnog, "I cannot know for sure if my own desires would take me to what I saw below. I like to think not; I like to think that whatever my boundaries or limits of pleasure might be, it would be at the expense of another. That would be where it stopped."

The incubus says, "then you have laid rules for yourself before your journey has even begun. You cannot truly know the depths of *real* pleasure if you hold back from receiving these gifts. If you chase that which is pure, and you follow it wherever it may lead, you cannot presuppose or restrict where your heart might desire to fly. Until you understand this..."

The incubus is breathing down the side of Gnog's neck, close, touching; "...then you are not ready". The sucubus adds - her tail caressing up Gnog's leg and all the way up his back and neck, down his cheek - "yes, until then..."

Gnog thinks for a while - "well you can see the effect you have on me physically!" (hard as a rock) - "and it saddens me I suppose that I can't explore more, since you require commitment to that path. But I have friends and purpose, of my own, and that is stronger than this. I understand, now, you are limitless, but I am not."

So Gnog steps away. He's disappointed. The incubus catches his eye. "You simply have to believe that you too can be limitless and allow yourself to truly be free."

They turn back to their practice. We turn to leave, Gnog just shouts over his shoulder, "I'm glad you're keeping away from Rix Maadi for the time being. Farewell."

We head outside. Outside, Gnog takes a deep breath, "Fuck, that was hardcore. Well. No more exploration for me, at least, not with devils - that's very interesting. Dealing with lawful evil, I guess? So convincing and alluring. They have a goal and they're very good at trying to get it. Were it not for Deni pulling me away last time, and for the experience of what we saw below, I could easily have been swept into it. Compelling logic. But twisted, to a goal. Truth in it, which makes it harder to deny. But single-minded. Not chaotic like below but just as selfish."

Gnog that he's touched on it; the touch of lust, chasing the peak, everything else disappears; but it doesn't have to be at the *expense* of another. Even if you're lost in the moment. If you were to focus on just that and chase it, though, you could easily lose perspective. It was the logic of those devils; an escalation, each step small and seeming sensible, logical, innocuous, in the haze of lust; but taken together, ultimately destructive.

"I cannot and never will enjoy something like that, knowing that it comes at the cost of another. I don't believe that to have carnal fun requires another to be destroyed; that's their view, but it's not mine. I don't know how to continue to explore what I learned here, but it won't be with Rakdos. And it's relief to be so sure in my heart that I couldn't ever enjoy something, at least not if I knew that it was on that path. That it destroyed another for me to have fun. It's just not sufficient rewarding to make it worthwhile, if nothing else. A strange lesson. Thank you for indulging me" (to the party).

Duty is done there. The question of what next today - well P2, two evenings hence. A free half day, a free night, and another free day tomorrow. Fee-Ree suggests finding Nissa. Gnog was thinking red crystals, but since even the Dimir can't keep up with their movements, that'll have to wait until we meet them at the gallery to find out more. We won't know if Ral has found anything or if the resonance experiments are bearing fruit unless Ral message us - we do not need to go to Nivix; we'll be contacted if needed.

Nissa Revane, then. Another district. Selesnyan. We should head to Vitu Ghazi and Gnog can try nature. But if it's that easy, it's easy for Tesseret. But that assumes Tesseret has the ear of nature, which isn't necessarily the case.

First thing we do, then, is get coffee and ringbread! Random D20 for luck -> 19! They still have ringbread. We're in luck! The shopkeeper himself says so; he baked an extra batch today as it's been busy lately. It's an azorious silver as usual (out-of-game: we hope we remember this correctly!) and we have a really good time enjoying something we'd missed. If nothing else of Ravnica, there's this.

We follow a now-familiar path to P3 and Vitu-Ghazi. Along the way we notice traffic. It is unusually busy; this is what the ringbread vendor mentioned. All around Sunhome, especially to the east, seems to be heightened activity, a lot of traffic. People are gathered in long queues along the causeways towards Vitu-Ghazi. We have to join the queue. It's hot and noisy. Gnog perception only 15; Gnog can see over people, up ahead are rows of large armoured beasts forming a perimeter. He suggests to the party that militarisation maybe increasing and perhaps it's less about more people visiting P3, and more about slow entry - some kind of burdensome process - perhaps causing some people to bail out and drop off the causeway, which takes them into P4, causing more trade for the ringbread vendor.

It takes a very tedious 45 minutes to get to the front of our particular queue. A minotaur and rhino-headed humanoid are there. Gnog's not seen such a person before. We're asked to submit to a general "scan of goodwill", of intent and intention. We agree. We're led into an area behind the guards and small woodland creatures run amongst us sniffing around. Weird! Birds flit around. Gnog (even with luck) gets only 14 on animal handing for that. A dryad tells him to just let the animals do their thing! Some people are pulled aside; the rest of us are let through.

We head beyond the Concourse and into the woods around Vitu-Ghazi. There's no evidence of militarisation here. It's busy. We could ask Levinia - always asking her for things, sigh - so we head off towards her Verdani, but focus on the surrounding grounds as she might be tending around there. Taz persuasion 19+13->32! A little more than we really needed. They point to where she is - by some beehives. Honey, of course. We head over. There's a grove and, hanging down from trees are huge natural beehives. Various people are here, clothed in sort of mesh of sorts, apparently to protect from stings. We're pointed towards Levinia but warned against going in without suits - so someone heads in to try and fetch Levinia our way. The person picks up a big collection of jars tied together and takes off the hat - Levinia.

We explain our predicament, but first, we help pick some hibiscus flowers and berries for tea. Levinia says she can try and connect to the conclave but needs some tea first! It's a great excuse for us to have a friendly catch-up. She pours all the honey she'd collected out into a big container and leaves it out in the sun. She pours tea and adds in a big dollop of her flavoured honey into each. It's delicious. She has some nettles and mint in it; a bit of a kick. She's keen and so are we.

"Clears the trunk, you know. Let me try. I'll see what I can find." She starts to hum a tune, closes her eyes and connects. "Hmm. There's one in the network; a very strong presence. Seen a lot of pain. In a neighbouring forest; it'll take a while to get there; the fastest way would be to take a worm. We'll just need to call a worm for you." We say OK but we don't know what that actually means! "We'll head to the edge, up into the Treetops district - the canopy - we can call a worm safely there." "A greatworm?" "No a forest worm! They're friendlier."

We get to Treetops. Levinia speaks to a druid, apparently a friend of hers. He starts banging on the ground while chanting. A few others around join in. There's a rumbling. The undergrowth and trees shake. Eventually, two furry worms with heads that seem a cross between a dragon and  a wolf, with kind of antlers running back from their heads; appear. They travelled above ground, through the undergrowth. "So what do we do?!" asks Gnog. We're told that someone strong needs to hold onto some whiskers - almost like horse reins but part of the worm. "Settle in here -" they show a place on the worm's back "- maybe rope yourselves together, speak to the worm; connect with it and explain where you want to go. Look for the **old red tree** - that's  the part of the forest where you have to go. District 12, but actually outside of it in the green belt between districts. The remnants of forests that we tend. You must be one with the worm! For you will have to go underground to traverse the neighbouring district."

So Gnog says "give me a few minutes..." and gains Speak With Animals. Says hi to the worm. Is it OK with us asking it to take us on a journey? Persuasion 14+7->21. The worm shares a concept of a mission! It will take us to the red tree. It already knows the destination. Gnog asks if it's OK with the four of us - two of us much lighter. Yes. Gnog asks how we can travel underground without losing our heads! They aren't going to dig tunnels - existing tunnels instead. We're told the companion will travel ahead to check it is safe. It turns out the worms are a couple. They always travel together.

Levinia asks if she can come. Yes! She'll ride the other worm. "Who's travelling with me?" and Taz volunteers. He'd like to hear more about her stories as we travel. We rope up for safety and once we're all settled in, Gnog asks the worms to start. We thank the druids, of course. Levinia says she'll lead the way! "We're on the female worm - she usually goes first." We're reminded to leave the worms somewhere with grazing once on the other side.

The worms head off. They undulate, it's strange - but fast. We emerge on hills with scrub and low trees, already outside D10. These are older, forested ridges that form a barrier between districts. It's nice to see something natural. We reach a large wall - another district. The worms turn left and find an old tunnel entrance, then dive inside. It's almost like an old subway; we're reminded of the place where we first landed, only this is in worse condition - overgrown and slick with moss.

About 40 minutes later, the tunnel veers left sharply and opens onto the side of a cliff. Levinia shouts, "HOLD ON!" as the worms swing *up* and travel vertically up the cliff side - a chasm, like those we'd seen at the Red Wastes. Well, that's a good reason to have a disused subway; not a good commuter experience...

The worms seem very adept at finding holds in the chasm walls; we get up and onto flat land, across a road - occupied! - people are startled - then we head up and over onto another ridge, then finally into another forest, away from civilisation. It's really, really fast travel. The worms skirt around ruined buildings reclaimed by forest; then we reach a much older area. Remnant of original forest, we think. The worms circle around a large, old, red maple and slow down. We stop, dismount and look for a grazing area. Levinia points out an area of succulents nearby which they like to eat.

That done, we need to find Nissa. The big red maple has leaves - we see on the ground - that are nearly a metre wide. It's another giant; maple-like, but huge. Gnog figures it might be a time to try Commune With Nature. While he works on the ritual, Levinia wanders off to gather some berries she's found that are new to her; Taz assists. Gnog's ritual completes and he asks the surrounding land if it knows of Nissa Revane, with a rough description provided by Levinia who knew the name.

Nature says - yes, she's here. Gnog senses that she's up in the maple. He thanks the forest and wishes it well.

Once Levinia and Taz are done, we look around for a way up the maple. Levinia is very excited! She's very excited by the berries; they're actually more like fruit, large and very fragrant. Great for honey!

We examine the tree. Many thick vines and roots hang down; lots of animals are approaching, apparently unafraid and curious. We figure out that we can almost take any route we like up, as there seem to be many branches and plenty of vines so we just start to climb. Levinia is able to climb - she turns into a giant spider! Neat trick. Taz rides on its back. Up we go.

Gnog has a faltering start, 2+10(!)->12, so slow going. Has another go. 19+10->29. That's more like it. Gets the hang of it. Fee-Ree decides to just fly! Deni can't really fail at things like this and is scuttling up as nimbly as the spider. She sends the mouse ahead - it seems quite adept at climbing too.

We reach all the way up to the main crown of the tree, where the main branches break away from the trunk for the last time. To find out which branch, Gnog survival - poor roll, he's distracted, so luck point, 15+8->23. Smoothed areas of bark - people have walked there. We follow that branch. Gnog Perception 19. He sees, or rather more hears, the sound of something whooshing through the air and reacts to dodge - avoiding three arrows. Gnog shouts, "wait, wait, we're on your side, we're not with Tezzeret, even though I know that's what someone who was with Tezzeret would probably say, umm..." and tails off. A thick vine uncoils and descends. An elf comes down. She holds a beautiful longbow. Gnog pulls out Alagartha's longbow and holds it forward - "if this means anything, we were gifted this by eleven noblemen who we helped on our home planet."

"Is it meant to mean something to me?" "Only that we're not here as aggressors." "Speak your purpose". An arrow is drawn. Gnog sees Deni reacting and shouts, "Deni, no, please stand down..." and Taz jumps in, saying, "You are one of Niv's Four. So is Fee-Ree here. Look closely." Fee-Ree stands forward. "My path here was brought by loss. The loss of one I loved dearly. And I know my loss cannot compare to yours. Will you tell us of your loss, that we may understand why our paths have come here?" and as she speaks, Taz hums an inspiring tune (Bardic Inspiration). Fee-Ree persuasion 15+8 on the bardic -> 23.

The elf unnotches the three arrows and puts them back. Gnog stows his bow, as does Deni. She descends, letting go of the vine. She now stows the bow. She pulls out a staff. Gnog asks, "A druid?" She's a green elf; unusual eyes, tribal tattoos. Unusual. "I am... Well, I was, speaker of my forests. I speak for forests and worlds and mountains who longer have a voice." She's otherwise unlike any druid Gnog's seen, but for the staff; the longbow is confusing. So she's a Speaker, whatever that exactly might mean. The air around her turns still as she walks through it. Her eyes are almost hard to gaze at; no pupils. Woven leather armour, quite remarkable; a billowing cape of soft green wool.

Gnog says, "we are part of Niv's game. And he's not here, so we don't even know exactly what the game is. We know Tezzeret stays ahead of us, this world is in peril, and we need to either group together, or at least share resources for a common cause."

"This world is full of foes. The enemy is hard to identify. Niv Mizzet is one such enemy through his recklessness."

"Of that, I imagine all of the Four and any who accompany them are in agreement. He has caused much destruction, justifying it for the 'greater good', but really, for his self-preservation. Nonetheless, at least a billion souls are in peril. We find ourselves compelled to act, even though the motivation is impure."

"As much as I have hatred and loathing for this dragon, I find my destiny aligned - for what he seeks to prevent here, on this world, I cannot deny is worthy of aid. Anything to stop the juggernaut of Bolas has to be worthy. But how he intends to stop Bolas, I do not know. The Gatewatch has no power against him."

She does not mean the device at Nivix. She means *us* - Jace, "my old friend, myself Liliana, Gideon and Shandrila" - rattles off names of people she knows but we don't. "We have sought to stop Bolas at numerous points - inflexions of history." Gnog asks, "are those related to the destruction of planets by the Xaryxians, or separate?" "The Xaryxians have nothing to do with Amonkhet, at least as far as I am aware. They have tried against Zendikar, my planet, and failed - I was there! Now Bolas, he seeks new power. He grows stronger with each conquest. Niv, I believe, is convinced that Ravnica is the point of no return. Should Bolas succeed in subjugating this plane, there will be no force in this universe strong enough to stop him from taking whatever he wants."

Gnog looks to his party and says, "So, here we go again! We don't even fight for Ravnica, we fight for Torril."

She asks, "You speak of the Xaryxians? What world have you encountered them?" - we explain about the rebellion we encountered and the mystery missing planet from (as ever) seven years ago. "Ah!" she says, "The missing planet - that is **Alara**. It was torn asunder a very long time ago; the Xaryxians had hoped to harvest it whole; Bolas had sent his agents and the Infinite Consortium had been watching, preparing it for the arrival of the Xaryxians; but we managed to delay them long enough for the Xaryxians to become occupied elsewhere. We failed, ultimately, for a mere two years later Bolas' plans came to fruition. We could merely delay him." We are confused! It was torn asunder; so what did Bolas send his agents to? It's related to Planewalkers. Alara was a beautiful world, of balanced magic, but it was ripped into five shards. Each contained an unbalanced set of beliefs, philosophies and expressions of magic. Some pure law, others pure chaos. For it to be harvested, a world must be whole and not split across planes, as Alara had become; they became aware of Bolas' interference on each shard, trying to create a convergence. It was easier for him because many believed it to be a good thing on Alara. But his plans had to be foiled, sadly; he only wanted to do it for harvesting. Not good intent. So they worked *against* good people to delay the convergence long enough that the Infinite Consortium was forced to look elsewhere to appease the Xarxyians and their hunger. We thought that once the Infinite Consortium's eyes were looking elsewhere, our work was done and we left Alara with only one set of eyes left behind to watch over. Little did we know that shortly after we left, Tesseret appeared to continue his master's work. The convergence happened. The plane united. Alara is no more. The *entire* world was harvested. We never heard again from the planeswalkers that we knew on those shards. When the convergence happened, it drew all of the magical forces - the weave - together into a concentrated ball of energy that tied all of the living planeswalkers and creatures of high magic into one inseparable tapestry. Bolas came and consumed it - every last drop of it. It was only then that we realised what we were up against. Bolas intends to consume all magic in this universe. The Xarxyians never took it; the physical astral body is present; it is just devoid of all magic. People still live there, but the weave is gone. It is isolated. Nobody can leave. Nobody can visit."

She goes on. "What Niv did, in his infinite arrogance, set off a chain of events that nearly destroyed my world. The floating Hedrons. Niv Mizzet destroyed a lock, that had held back unfathomable creatures... I will speak of it no more. Perhaps some other day." And we see she is still dealing with the pain of that. "It is done. It is solved. The price was paid."

It's strange. Fucked up though it is, it seems that we on Torril were the lucky ones.

Gnog says, "So, we need to figure out what's next. Tesseret has a device and crystals to amplify power to it. We don't know what for. Nivix has a defense, but Tesseret stole the crystals that help it work; we're trying to assist, but it might not be enough. We know it involves the platform at D10, but not how; we know that same platform was instrumental in supplying power to the IPB seven years ago. It is anchored to laylines. Perhaps Tesseret intends to tap into that same power for whatever he's building. Kaya - another of the Four - believes this imminent."

The Gatewatch, we are told, works on principles of balance and containment. We are invited to follow her to learn what she knows; combined knowledge may help understand. We are led up the tree, higher; there is a space here, in a hollow between two branches that fold over one another. "This is a different view of magic..." - she a symbol representing a primal force; then says there are five more that this symbol groups; "all five are required. Now I came here looking for my old friend Jace but I have yet to find him. Jace is this..." - she draws a drop of water - "he represents the flow of time and knowledge, of secrets, of illusion, of control and of trickery." She draws a silhouette of a tree. "This is me. Life and strength, growth, verdance and nature, everything that is nature." She draws a scull. "Liliana was once this, but she has fallen to the dark - to Bolas. She has broken the Gatewatch. So this is Kaya; the magic of death and shadow, of the undead and of darkness. Of desire and of danger." She draws the outline of a sun. "*This* is Ajani. In the gatewatch we had Gideon, but as Liliana fell he lost all hope for they were lovers. He would not fight here. We had to leave him behind. I believe Ajana is this. Magic of order, honesty, heroism, truth, light, all that is good and pure and true." Gnog can't help whispering "Garren" under his breath. She draws a flame. "This is *you*" - she points at the group. "You must be this. The magic of emotion, of chaos, of passion, of fire; of the bonds unbreakable, of that which consumes all and gives life in destruction. The inferno that cannot be controlled, but the **spark** at the centre of the universe; all the same. Our dear Shandrila is trapped, on the plane of Kalidesh. She would have been this. This is why I believe *you* are this. Do you believe this to be true?" Fee-Ree says, "I don't think it's just me. I am only a few of those things. It is *us* - the way *we* function. Our family unit is the bond unbreakable. Our emotions are our weakness for each other, but also - as ever - a strength. A passion, all consuming; we are chaos -" (Gnog grins at that) "- without Garren, no balancing force; chaotic as we are brilliant... But true, as a fire that burns away all of the darkness."

So that's it; we're all needed.

"What *is* the gatewatch? What gate? The planar bridge?" "Planar *gates*. The gatewatch was put in place to guard and protect vulnerable systems - planes - from the influence of powerful planeswalkers; to close the gates to those seeking greater influence and power through subjugation. Those like Bolas. Those like the Infinite Consortium, funded mainly by the Mercanes." Gnog says, "Ah, the Mercanes are a whole other issue for us! We do have a bone to pick with them as well, as it happens."

"You've come all this way to find me. What is it you seek me out for? Before I lay more on you?"

"Just to find the Four. Group us, or pool knowledge and resources. We don't know the plan. We don't know how to mount a defence. We have more and more information, less and less time, but not really any more answers about what we can actually *do*, though we do get closer."

She says she'll call for Ajani, to meet at Vitu Ghazi. Gnog asks, "I'm honestly not sure, although I want a group, it feels safer and more effective, if this is a good idea - Tesseret is a threat currently beyond our capabilities." "Perhaps we should meet elsewhere?" Gnog says, "Yes. Funnily enough, we were just taking a tour of Zonot Seven and there's this funny little coral village place that's basically a resort for thinkers... Quite deep, overlooked, totally inappropriate - could be perfect?"

"Do you have anywhere surrounded by your allies who could act as eyes and ears against intrusion? A place where Tesseret's minions would seem out of place - the mechanical servants?"

"The library in district 10. But we'll have more confirmation on that only after tomorrow night; we're meeting with representatives to confirm if they really are allies. But that place is watched; everyone there is known; anyone out of place would be spotted quickly. The only other is Sunhome, but that could put a lot of other people in danger."

Fee-Ree asks about Skarrg. Gnog gives it thought. Certainly, anyone looking organised or military would stand out like a sore thumb; but our friends are far North. We could go though, we would perhaps be recognised or Gnog can just fight something to gain respect again. Easily done really. And a move that perhaps put the fewest at risk. A big battle there, well, it's already laid waste. Not much else to destroy. And we don't risk exposing the Dimir by leading Tesseret to them. Good call.

So OK, Skarrg. We'll try there. When?

"Depends on Ajani! Shall we say **five sunrises hence**?"

"OK."

She whistles. A giant owl lands. The sun is beginning to set - it's some time after 6pm. She speaks to the owl in a language we don't understand. It blinks twice, turns, spreads its wing and flies out into the evening, towards the Red Wastes. "Will you stay the night, or do you have somewhere you must be?"

"Actually, I was rather hoping you might invite us! Nowhere else to be."

"Then please accept my hospitality."

Food is produced. There are interesting and exotic fruits, strange nuts, just bounty of the forest. Levinia is very happy about that. She even has a jar of honey with her! Great work. Gnog explains that we'd tell Levinia more to explain our strange conversations but it might put her in danger; kind of apologising. She understands. So, we eat well. Fee-Ree can heat water, so we are even able to make a tea for ourselves and Nissa without endangering the tree upon which we sit. She's happy to share and learn. We generally chat and, persuasion all round:

* Taz 28 (throwing out bardic inspiration to Fee-Ree and Deni as he goes, singing along)
* Gnog 24 (using his last luck point!)
* Fee-Ree 23 (even without bardic)
* Deni only 3, but fortunately, she's not saying much; she's quite in awe of Nissa, it transpires later; never met a woman like her before - extreme confidence, powerful, deeply knowledgeable but not arrogant. It reminds her of Ophithana. A little of Eliastra too, but Eliastra has a very different view on life; Eliastra was happy (after a fashion) to deline and diminish, be small and work on her corner of the world, while Nissa is the opposite - wide, verdant, not diminished or restrained.
* Deni and Gnog talk about that later. Gnog gets quite nostalgic at the mention of Ophithana. Deni asks if Eliastra was once like Nissa maybe. Gnog's response has a passion in his voice that surprises himself; he simply says, "She's still like that now. She makes a choice to be quiet. But she can still be loud. We saw her. In war, she roared, louder than my loudest battle cry."
* The hours pass. We have the wine from D10 - we open a bottle (and later, another). Levinia helps with levity of conversation; she doesn't hold alcohol well. It helps Nissa trust and understand us. By the end, by maybe 10, she's opening up a little and we get closer still as a group.

She reveals that her planet, through Niv's actions, was revealed to not be real. It was a box - a prison - a clever construct, holding back beings that came from the Blind Eternities or the "Far Realms". Extremely powerful, immense size. Deni asks about the megafauna here, yes, like that - but bigger. MUCH bigger. One of the smaller of them was bigger than all of D10. Unfathomable size really. Astral. They consume planets, but only because unaware of the life on them really - as if ants. They don't even live in the way we see life. They can't be killed, just trapped. These **Eldrazi** were encased within the planet, held in place by hedrons. She names a few; they had specific names. A great many died on her world, but she grudgingly acknowledges that had Niv not inadvertently revealed this, the Xarxyians would've tried to harvest what they thought was a planet and it might've led to uncontrolled release; much worse outcome; so how did they ultimately save their planet-not-planet, with the slower release caused by the breaking of the lock by the IPB? It took years of gathering sages together to understand the hedrons and figure out how to lock them ago. They have no idea whoever created this; it took so long that a planet had formed - cosmic dust accumulated over the aeons. They'd never thought much of the floating mountains in the sky, until visitors from other worlds first arrived and said "that's unusual!" - it made them feel like their world was special; they were the chosen ones. But then the IPB destroyed one and revealed and unlocked the hedron. Nissa is pretty sure that Niv *intended* to do this. He unlocked one, without caring. It killed an entire community, a whole village on the mountain - but even more, the hedron unlocked. They didn't know at first, but this cascaded and started to open others. The influence of the Eldrazi started to spread - Eldrazi spawn, weird geometry and illogical form, spread, annihilating things around them. They had no idea what was going on at the time. Things would just be *gone* - space - simply *vanished*. This is what led to Nissa's spark; she was just a hunter and druid, a mere seven years ago. She saw the mountains fall. She went to investigate, one of the first to encounter the spawn. The rest of her party were disintegrated; turned into substance and fuel for these creatures. She fled, to survive; in her ensuing struggles she learned more. Accessed other planes, sought help, met Jace; he brought help there. Together the Gatewatch figured out how to re-lock the hedrons.

So Jace isn't inept or bumbling, as perhaps implied prior. He's skilled and able, aware of and part of much larger things beyond Ravnica. No wonder he was unhappy with being constrained by one planet's little guild pact.

As conversation winds down, Taz plays gentle melodies.

Just before going to bed properly, Gnog risks walking out on the canopy, balancing on a branch. He can see the city lights surrounding the remnant forest. It's not really that big, in the end; only half a mile either side from city edges, so a mile across. A bit smaller that precinct 3, all-in.

We eventually fall asleep on the upper boughs, listening to wind in the branches, night birds and crickets.

(END OF PART 13 - Part 14 next)
