# Riglan: Part 7

It's day 41 and we're heading back to Deepgarden Keep after an eventful visit to Reidoth and (the remains of) Thundergrove Bastion.

We are accompanied by the two late-teenage boys and two similarly aged girls that used to be with the dragon cult. They are very teenager; Maireagh doesn't really have time for their nonsense and walks ahead a distance on the mule! Slow going as Riglan, trying to navigate, is distracted. At the edge of the Evermoors, Riglan does another herb check to see what he can find - there's rare stuff out here and we're going slowly anyway.

We get back on the road and push on into town a little late and tired. Temo in particular is exhausted, him and Maireagh having given up their mules for the two teenage girls. The kids decide to seek refuge at the temple - we take them there and that's OK. We stable the horses, just two nights for now, some other bits and bobs, then we haul all the heavy stuff we have back to Qelline. We give her the flowers from Reidoth and she's thrilled about that. The half orc and human couple did come in and are staying in the cottage. We'll come back tomorrow evening to catch up properly.

We head, then, to across slowly and heavily laden to Oldbarrow Inn. We reacquaint with Trilenna - she was protecting Nethza when the Redbrands were in town. We ask for rooms for at least a couple of nights; she has two double rooms that's nice and quiet. She gives us towels and misshapen small bars of soap. Temo and Riglan share, as do Nethza and Maireagh (with the dog).

We go up and drop off a lot of the heavy shit. Temo's super tired and wants to go to bed, but is also hungry. Riglan turns into a horse so Temo can get a lift to Elder Barge! So we go and have food and drink - the Miner's Special to save money but their best ale, to spend money.

Nethza says - "what is *that* new thing?" - the cape and pin. Riglan tells the story.

About 9pm, we head back. Temo goes straight to bed. Riglan has a bath first. It's more of a sponge bath as he's quite big and the bath - isn't. Still, it's OK. By 10pm, we're asleep. The beds are comfy - not just slats with bedrolls like the cottage.

## DAY 42

We awaken in Oldbarrow Inn at Deepgarden Keep, very well rested. Riglan gets up around half eight ish. Nethza is awake too. Maireagh had stayed up and Temo is still asleep. Nethza and Riglan head out early to get some baking, at Nethza's suggestion. It's a different vibe; the forges aren't running, they seem a more nighttime thing. Weather is very good. Market is busy. Ha'bakers Lane has lots of stuff, full choice pretty much. Nethza offers to buy and treat us. Gets a big box of baking.

Just before the go back into the inn, Riglan stops and says - "....so now, you know. Not evil. Not scary. Just brave and generous." She's feeling much more positive and happy since Reidoth's words yesterday.

We squeeze around a small table in one of the rooms digging in. We get through about half of it before being full and save the rest for later. Minds turn to business.

* The gilded flower should be ready tomorrow.
* Maireagh thinks Koza might be able to do something with the scales.
* Claws perhaps go to the Yartar sale list!
* Blood - unsure - check with scrollkeeper.
* Smokehouse with dragon meat.
* The family heirloom.

We do the smokehouse 1st. 40lb -> 30 1lb rations, 30 silvers. We say yes! Collect tomorrow.

We remember the battleaxe. Maireagh identifies it - a +1 battleaxe created during a feud between the creator dwarven weaponsmith and some dryads in a forest they were at war with. It can fell any tree with a single hit! If you're anywhere in the woods or forest, you feel sick when carrying it. It's an enemy of the forest. Maireagh and Riglan want nothing to do with it. It was created to spite dryads.

Riglan suggests we might take the weapon to his clan one day so that it might never be used. Maireagh says that the magic could instead be undone - we have access to the forge of spells.

* What can be made, can be unmade. We'll ask Nundro.
* In the mean time, it lives in Maireagh's bag.

We catch up with Sildar, telling him all about it. We ask if he can help get those kids down south and he says Sister Garelle has already been to see him about that - she's organising that they catch a ride with the next Lion Shield Costa caravan heading down. We think we'll head to Yartar soon, but a day or two downtime first. He does say that he has something we might find useful if we're going South... He pulls out a beautiful old map. Quite a bit nicer than Riglan's cloth map! More useful due to detail. It's a Lord's Alliance commissioned item, showing major trade routes and so-on. (We're kind of above the apostrophe of Morbyrn's Shield).

We estimate, given roughly 5 days from Sungift to Deepgarden total travel time at 25 feet back then, that horseback would have us in Yartar in 6 days if all went well.

* The family heirloom - Thel Drendar's wife, Mirna - is returned. It's a little melancholy but it was always an odd place to be and it's good to have the heirloom back.
* She thought we'd keep it as payment for rescue, but we just say that she should follow Reidoth's wishes - be told what they were told, back when they tried to reclaim the village - let it return to nature and dissuade others from going. Plenty of other places to live.

We check in with Koza with the dragon scales. They measure up Riglan and come back with a pattern that Maireagh takes. Koza gives her some special tools which Maireagh pays for. They're talking in Dwarven the whole time so Riglan isn't sure what exactly is the deal but it's easy enough to guess. Maireagh explains - since they'll be on the road and given the work required, it'll take a long time; 15 days at least. So Maireagh wants to work on-the-go. Just one proviso: Could we get a wagon from the wainwright?

Sure. Why not.

Since extra coin is never unhelpful, we head to the Scrollkeeper to sell the Misty Step scroll, since Riglan can do that easily anyway. It comes in the beautiful bone holder and Temo does a very good sales pitch (persuasion 19+10!). He offers us 110gp. Temo decides to sell the Lighting Bolt scroll too since he's happy keeping Fireball as a just-in-case; we buy some books and Riglan gets a painter's kit in exchange and a deal is struck. Maireagh stayed at the inn working on other things, but she wants fetching for the wagon. So we swing by, collect her and go to Lion Shield Coster to ask about wagons. We show the loyalty card! Linene says she doesn't need to see it - she gave it to us in the first place...

Maireagh eyes up a few carts. It's not a huge selection - small town, no demand - but they're kind of too small really, not quite what we want. A four-wheeled wagon or a carriage might be more appropriate. The wagon is smaller and lighter (400lb) but we'd still need tents to sleep. The carriage could squeeze us in during the night, but is heavier and doesn't have the kind of wide flat floor Maireagh wants to use to work on. Riglan prefers that too; the carriage isn't really general purpose enough. There's a wagon with a frame and a canvas top that can be rolled over as a makeshift roof, so that'll do. There's space up front to sit and steer, with smaller wheels up front and larger wheels at the back. Almost a caravan. Wouldn't be good in a storm, but fine otherwise. Linene talks about it a bit and starts adding up amounts (apparently normally 75gp including the roof, reinforced wheels (!) and way to hook up our mules) but before she says anything Temo steps in and tries to cut another deal... She decides to throw in add-on kinda springs that help stabilise and soften the ride, but we'll have to fit them. Makes it a lot better if we have to swerve or similar. So we agree and buy ourselves the wagon for 75gp.

Lenine also gives us a "transfer guarantee", which means we'll get a better-than-average price if we sell it to Coster in future. It's almost a hire purchase kind of thing - assuming it stays in good condition.

We thank her and will collect it to travel some time tomorrow. Riglan asks to go see their stabled horses, so he can ask the mules if they'll be OK pulling the cart and they're fine with it - in fact they say it sounds pretty light. We should be able to move quickly, and may even be able to have one pulling and one resting if need be, or the draft horse could take over.

We kill time figuring out what packs into what bag, what goes on the wagon and who rides where (e.g. Nethza draft horse, 2 mules pulling, Riglan steering with Temo alongside, Maireagh tinkering in the back). Riglan's getting quite excited about it. Nethza doesn't feel like spending more money - save it for what we might find at Yartar. Besides, we need some for Old Owlbear Tower. Maireagh points out that we could pay for a team to start excavation while we're away; she's been looking into it for a while now (see e.g. day 38). Cost for them to get started independently would be 2mo of wages and material:

* Foreman: 40gp / mo
* Team of 5 excavators to clear rubble and repair, if possible, outbuildings: 5 * 4gp / mo
* Materials: 150gp estimated, including tools etc., which will be used up over the 2 month period
* 270gp for the 2 months all-in

Riglan asks if we're allowed to do that before getting paperwork stamped at Yartar. Maireagh points out that it's just to "lock in" the claim - prove it - so nobody else should be able to go there and take over. Since we'll be in Yartar in less than a week and since most people are still avoiding it since it got a reputation for undead, we think we'll be fine. We check in with Sildar briefly to be sure, and he agrees; also lets us know that Nundro's been in and out of Wave Echo Cave, but did leave us a small gift box with one of the first properly refined ingots from there.

Maireagh and Sildar work together to assemble the team, vet them, get a contract and give them a downpayment. It'll be administered from the marshal's hall.

We eventually head to our evening (7pm) dinner date with Qelline. She's baked an amazing-smelling meat pie, with fresh radish and turnip salad, purple carrots and crisp leaves. There's apple cider vinegar from the orchard. We tell her all about the encounter with Reidoth, the good and the bad - including his age. Carp listens intently - we've never heard him so quiet. For his benefit, we do draw out bits of proof from time to time in the story - a book, jewels, bits of dragon, even Hew the battleaxe.

We learn that the monster hunter couple left that afternoon, but had left a thank-you gift - a strangely shaped object that looks like some kind of knuckle bone, a trinket really, but seems to be almost as hard as metal.

We talk about Yartar and future plans. She's somewhat nostalgic - gets excited about adventuring, she still has that within her, but she has a family now and knows that she likes being settled. There's a lot of danger and hardship. We realise that Carp's fallen asleep at the table, head resting on his arms on the table, head filled with stories and dreams. Qelline takes him to his bedroom and tucks him in. He opens his eyes briefly and says "Byebye, Temo! Byebye" - and falls back to sleep.

We leave at around 10pm. Qelline waves as we head away. "It was great to meet. You reminded me of so much that I nearly forgot used to be my life - all the things that used to ignite a fire in me - all those adventures, all of that unknown, all of that excitement. Ah, those days! And yet, what it's reminded me most is that the most precious thing in my world is that young boy asleep in there. I would give everything to keep him safe; to give him a life. Thank you for reminding me of all that. I wish you safe journey and grand adventure." - we thank her, everyone hugs, and she waves, illuminated by the soft light hanging over the doorway; we walk away and as we're almost out of sight, Riglan notices that he snuffs the light and heads back indoors.

It felt like visiting our old home.

Near the inn, Maireagh asks Riglan if he prefers buttons or laces... He doesn't understand the question really. Turns out it's a question of protection versus flexibility. He opts for the more flexible approach. Mostly uses the hide; perhaps the bigger scales could be for a small shield of some sort. He reckons laces are probably more practical for something you kind of live in, and fight in; somewhat easier to repair too.

We head to bed, looking forward to our adventure the next morning. Temo's excited - he's been there once before, a long time ago, but thinks he'll remember it more when he gets back there.

Overnight, once again, Riglan has a vision/dream. It feels different; not portentous or scary. He's observing, as if walking along a corridor looking through windows, each showing scattered, out of sequence snapshots of periods in time. He experiences this more than understands it; he lacks the context, history, or experience.

* A land without many forests, hills and planes similar to those he's seen. One is full of people farming, travelling and living on the window on one side; on the opposite side the window shows sweeping plains with herds of horses, buffalo and antelope.
* Periods of growth accelerated in another window; thriving communities and nature.
* Halls set into the tops of probably massive trees with a procession of very small - or very distant! - people; no sense of scale.
* A period of war - armies of orcs clash with dwarves; it shifts to a proud delegation of dwarves decked in mithril and gold bringing chests of treasures before a court of elves, advancing forwards again to argument, the elves dismissive and aloof, refusing the treasure; dwarves, rising tempers, accusations, fingers pointed, voices raised, dwarves march away taking their treasures with them as the elves stand proud on the edge of their forests, but the dwarves then fall to the axes and arrows of orc armies, forced to retreat deeper and deeper into their rock cities, their hearts hardening.
* Young, wide-eyed, poor/primitive looking humans with only basic tools, scared, travelling in bands, hiding in caves; they're given tools and books, seedlings/plants, by elves. Shortly after, the elves board airships that float over the land leaving the forests behind.
* Dwarven halls with lords and kings sat surrounded by their gold and forges, being treated by a delegation this time of armoured humans carrying furs and animals.
* More wars, humans and dwarves side by side this time against goblins and hobgoblins, gnolls and orcs.
* The kingdoms of humans warring against each other, bringing to bear mighty magics and cavalries, ships armed with canon, ballistae and trebuchets besieging other cities; ambassadors pleading with the courts of dwarves and remnants of the elves, even approaching the dragons and consorting in Summoning Circles with trickster devils and other such otherworldly creatures.
* A tribe of humans on an iceberg throw human sacrifices into the ocean as huge tentacles of purple and blue reach up from the depths to pull the sacrifices down.
* Mountains, cold and ice, grey skinned, white eyed dwarves climbing out of holes in the mountainside, tugging on chains as they drag out a white dragon that's collared and shackled.
* A window of swirling mist. Riglan hasn't really understood the others (insight 3+5, FFS) but stays with this one, it draws him. The mist peels back; a stone city of white towers and light grey stonewalls that seem to grow out of small mountains - oh, wait, no, it's scale; the city is vast, the mountains normal sized. Large figures walk on the parapets and in the street. Above, floating, entire mountains with archways and towers on them, giant sized, hanging in the sky with jagged chunks of rock jutting beneath, conveying groups of dozens of giants between what reveal to be cloud-based districts of a floating city above a giant valley in mountains. The window goes to mist; then to panicking, screaming giants running through streets as parts of the cities come crashing to the ground; the eyes of storm giants are seen, mad and crazed as they run through streets, throwing bolts of lightning, power pouring from them as they scream in pain, unable to contain their magic as at reigns destruction around them. Riglan has to move on, it's too much.
* A hospital tent; a nurse tending to wounded from a war; a mixture of races. Sullen and quietly contemplating priests with frowns on their brows, walking through and healing who they can with magic, giving just enough healing to each that as the reach the end of each row of beds, those at the first row seem to be falling back again, the magic leaving their bodies, falling to dry husks in rapid decay that the nurses and priests can't stop - they step out of the tent into a sea of similar tents.
* Swirling chaos of elemental energy. Gouts of flame, blasting and jetting from the left, roiling infernos threatening to engulf everything; but cold air and wind with frost hanging blow from the right, pushing from the right, burning and freezing in collision. Floods of water and bergs of ice crash through, forming a wall of ice against the air; ground beneath shakes and opens up as hands made of stone and earth pull down the ice bergs as they're being burned, the howling gales blowing parts of the hands away; a maelstrom of clashing elements. When it settles, there's a desolate, lifeless landscape. Hanging above, is the blazing sun with an eye.

Riglan wakes up. Can't go back to sleep; he writes all he can remember in his journal with sketches. It's actually almost normal morning. Nethza walks in - "are you alright Riglan? Have you been to bed?" - he hesitatingly says "yes - I have to write it all down - I can't forget it". He finishes that and quietly gets up and heads downstairs. Stands outside for air.

## DAY 43

Nethza and Riglan are awake. Nethza's already packed. She comes outside and they talk about the bizarre dream, Riglan hoping for insight. Nethza asks if he's gripping his staff when he sleeps - he doesn't know.

We wake the others and head out for a good breakfast. Ha'bakers Lane again! We get lots of food. We collect the smoked dragon meat and head to Font Of Fancy, now just opening (8:30-9am) to get the gilded flower. The remaining 150gp is paid.

That all done, we get the horses, take them to ombudshouse and load up the cart. As we pass by the marshal's office on the way out, Sildar sees us and says goodbye - wishes us a safe journey and good weather. He'll keep an eye on the masons and builders at Owlbear.

**We head out of town and onto the open road, headed for Yartar**.

The road follows the river. The weather is fair. Everyone is feeling cheerful; Riglan too, despite the dream's unsettling impact. Into the unknown. Further from home, but exploring more of the world - the map shows a vast continent - Riglan is a wanderer.

Temo just won't stop talking, super excited. Infectious enthusiasm. Plays with cantrip illusions. Every now and again Maireagh pops a head out and tells us how to drive the cart! She's good with land vehicles. She used to accompany dwarven traders when younger - fixed their shoes - tended to have less of a hangover in the morning! Nethza rides alongside on the draft horse, looking happy. We make good time.

After a while, Nethza asks if there's space on the wagon. She's feeling a bit left out. We stop and swap a few things onto the draft horse, so she can fit on the wagon. We have enough capacity to switch horse/mules in and out to stop them getting too tired or bored. That said, Maireagh kind of wants to be left back there to work in peace, so in the end Nethza squeezes up front - Riglan in the middle. It's full but fun.

This is faster than we're used to travelling. We make good time. There is no need to push or rush, so late afternoon we start looking out for a place to keep camp. There might be inns, but Temo isn't sure and we like camping anyway. There's water, land looks good for foraging. We look for somewhere raised a bit above the road, so there's no chance of being surprised from above, even if that means a bit of a walk for water. At around 5:30pm we actually find a small bridge and tributary stream, so follow that up the hill into a copse of trees and a small rock outcrop. Only about ten minutes from the road and the wagon can be brought up on the grass (but we get out walk to make that easier). The wagon won't be hidden per se but we're off the road a distance and feel safe. Mules and horse graze. Riglan lights a fire in an opening in the trees, using rocks from the stream bed around the edges and Forages and finds food for everyone. Riglan finds fish but decides to stick with the dragon meat - there's plenty.

Riglan and Maireagh work together on his armour stuff. Nethza sits with music as he plays music; she dances occasionally. She hasn't done it a while.

Eventually Riglan and Maireagh finish up. Maireagh shows Riglan a puzzle book that she likes to spend time with. Riglan makes a mental note to try and find more in Yartar and Temo suggests we should get hold of some cards or something. Nethza suggests storytelling - and starts by asking us what the scariest thing that's ever happened is. Maireagh refuses! Nethza insists.

* Riglan talks about the time before his 100th birthday when he was going on a hunt and talks about the strange bird behaviour, lights in the sky and the strange cloud, and confesses that a recent dream makes him wonder if there were giants there.

* Temo talks about his time at Luskan; the first night he went out and got too drunk, decided he needed to go home but had no idea how dangerous Luskan can be. Took a wrong turn, thought he was being followed, kept darting between alleys but got lost, tried to get onto roofs but fell, and other general drama. Decided there were undead after him, was sure he was going to die - kept running around and so-on; and then woke up in an alleyway. Couldn't find his flute afterwards, sure he was robbed.

* Maireagh reluctantly agrees to a story; she was in a caravan once and they were attacked by a group of cultists. She was quite young and not armed at the time. Her group were generally a lot older. She heard a commotion outside the carriage she was in & popped her  head outside just in time to see a guard have a spear driven through his throat (!) - didn't know really who the cultists were but they were vicious. She hid for a while, but then plucked up courage to run out and try to attack but couldn't get a hit. The caravan driver told her to run for the trees and tell people what had happened. She was pursued but hid; she saw them kill others and steal stuff, too scared to leave but couldn't bring herself to; still there the next day, until eventually some people found her, but she was embarrassed and guilty about how helpless she was.

* ...OK. Nethza's turn. She tries to apologise to Maireagh for pushing the issue. She does then share story of when she was in an orphanage, waking up in the middle of the night, hearing a scraping sound from the other end of the dormitory. She became sure something was crawling around there. She'd hide behind the bed sheets, imaging that the creatures had sucked the life out of other orphans and she was the last to be spotted. She'd eventually fall asleep but in the morning everyone would be fine. Never found out what it was.

So we decide Maireagh won and she gets an apple, which she reluctantly accepts and eats apparently deliberately noisily.

We go to bed. Watch: Dog plus - Maireagh, Nethza, Temo, Riglan. Another uneventful watch largely. Riglan enjoys the dawn chorus.

## DAY 44

We pack up camp; refill water etc.; off we go (Survival with advantage 21 total, Animal Handling also 21 total! Good rolls). It's dry, a bit breezy but not cold, generally sunny - the tarp keeps that from being a problem.

We realise in the 2nd half of the day that we could push on to **Mornbryn's Shield**. The mule and horses aren't keen (low Animal Handling roll) - so in the end we bargain with the horses that we'll walk, and take a bit of load off the draft horse, slower pace overall but we'll get there. We reach the outskirts at **6pm or so**; still daylight. We are, surprisingly, welcomed at the gate by the guards.

It's a small village, with only maybe 30 buildings. An elevated ridge carries the houses about 30ft above the surrounding flood plain of the Surbrin river and Riglan thinks he can see a second river across a stretch of the Evermoors that looks like it might join up somewhere to the South. Overlooking everything another 20ft up or so is a small keep. There's a beautiful statue of a ranger and wolf, with a plaque - Mornbryn, who protected travellers and kept the way open; as the light dims and the weather cools, the mists of the Evermoors come down, but Mornbryn's shield becomes an island in the mist. Despite the small size, there are quite a few caravans here, for now-obvious reasons.

We stable the horses with feed & water, and leave the wagon in a secure adjoining compound just inside the hamlet walls (1gp for the night).

We head further in; there's a temple with a lot of nature carvings, made of wood with some old trees planted around what is really more of an unusually sturdy shrine, about 20ft high. A log cabin kind of feel. Heavy wood doors are propped wide open. Riglan is intrigued so heads inside and asks about it. There's a fawn and some raccoons inside - he then spots some badgers, frogs, some tree snakes in the rafters and even an owl or two. It's for the god Mielikki - she's the nature goddess of the rangers; people who defend the woods & forests, keeping civilisation and nature living in harmony. They recommend an inn - The Ridge's Rest. Good value and down to earth, with a second floor that has a balcony with a good view.

We head off. Riglan asks if his party minds if he comes back later after food - everyone's fine with that.

Ridge's Rest is a simple place but really nice. A similar log cabin vibe but an old building. It's easy to spot. They have a dormitory or individual rooms - for security we do the latter, we have a lot of valuables these days - 3rd floor, two side by side & two across the hall. They do food too on a communal table or there's a menu. We opt for communal; simpler. Stew with meat, bread, some kind of swamp salad. The food is included with the room cost (5sp each -> 2gp total). Ale from Triboar is 3cp per tankard. We get one each and take them to the balcony as we see other people doing that kind of thing.

The balcony looks roughly South; definitely another river, visible as there's a break in the mist where it flows. The sun is nearly down; big tall trees poke up through mist layers. Perhaps some big towers distant? Or large trees? Some hilly regions poke out like islands. We watch the sun set.

Inside, a gnome lady is playing harp. We listen for a while then Riglan heads to the temple to talk more with the people there for a while, to learn more about the rangers; Temo joins Riglan (Nethza reads, Maireagh keeps working on the armour). At the temple they say it's not so much a religion; more a place to commune and look after Mielikki's children - the animals. They try to teach people how to live in harmony with nature (safely). Taking only what you need, that kind of thing. They're not an anti-civilisation philosophy. Not quite the same as Golden Fields, which is Shantaya (sp?), about farming and large populations; here, they try to stop things being cut down in the first place.

He asks what they think of the Emerald Enclave, and they suggest Riglan talks to Brother Barry who is out tending the trees. We find him with a bear cub, who was found motherless - presumed killed - and brought to him. It's old enough to say hi, ask for food and want to play! Riglan gives it some food & they play tug-rope for a while. Brother Barry doesn't have an elemental connection to magic but finds that Mielikki helps him get closer (he's a nature cleric). He sees himself as a protector for the people from dangerous wild animals or actual evil forces; but a protector of all the wild animals too. He knows Reidoth who counted this as the edge of his territory. He'd inducted Barry too. They chat about philosophies, which they seem to share even if Riglan doesn't have a connection to Mielikki himself; and talk about Firbolgs as Barry doesn't know what they are. Barry advises Riglan to always choose the fish in Yartar (!). We eventually part company on good terms - Riglan says goodbye to the bear - and head back to the inn. Maireagh's door's still open - she has something for Riglan to try on, which is part of the armour. They make a few little adjustments but overall it's comfortable. After that, we sleep.

Another dream... Wisdom 19+9. Riglan is flying over the land; looks familiar; heading North. Reaches what looks looks like Deepgarden Keep. Alsweir Steading looks peaceful. He can see through a window with moonlight shining through; Carp is asleep. Further North. Past Verrunsgard, to Sungift. Standing outside an inn, holding hands and pointing at some distant point to the North - in pajamas! - Gruushma and Markoth. Can't hear them but they look excited. Further North! Over home. The Lurkwood. He's missed it. Foothills of the mountains; a valley and his tribe. Most sleep. Some on patrol/watch. Seems peaceful and happy. He floats somehow into a cave with his mother and father, asleep, curled up together. Then back out and up, high; for the first time, a bird's eye view of the land there. The forests, mountains, winding rivers. On the distant coast, gleaming and sparkling lights concentrated in bundles, probably cities. The dream ends, Riglan continuing to sleep. He's very rested in the morning, feeling at peace.

## DAY 45

The inn has some breakfast food if we buy it - mushrooms and eggs. So we do that. Riglan tells Nethza about the dream over breakfast. We wonder if we'll ever find a way to communicate; send messages, to Danain or Riglan's tribe.

Eventually, we're all done. We say our goodbyes - "Mielikki watch over you, on your route out of the Evermoors" - we walk back down to collect the horses & hook up the cart and head away. Nethza and Riglan chat about his dream.

Rain and light drizzle pervade today with a cold damp wind blowing off the tail of the Evermoors. At times, we climb higher and catch warmer winds - almost unusually hot, in fact. It seems to be an Evermoors trait.

At lunch, Riglan forages for herbs around the area (nat 20! perception + 9) -> 3d12 -> 2, 3, 7, oh well, only 12. Nature check aided by book 9 + 5; 12gp of rare herbs, not medicinal.

The trail continues through the end of the Evermoors, feeling like a raised trail above a flooded river plain really. We learned from town that the secondary river is called the Laughing Flow, with a small bridge crossing. As we go over the bridge, seeing distances involved and with some experience of the road now, we realise that the map is not drawn to very accurate scale, and estimate several days remaining to Yartar.

In the evening, Temo tries to read Mormesk the Wraith's beautiful hard-bound leather cover, brass corner, clasp book in many languages, collected, annotated historical accounts of civilisations of the north. He needs Riglan (Druidic, Elven, Giant, Orc, Sylvan), Maireagh (Dwarvish, Gnomish) and Nethza (Undercommon, Infernal, Abyssal) to all help from time to time. Riglan in particular recognises a lot of an early form of Elvish. Riglan's Elvish is actually quite outdated, handed down through his clan; archaic Elvish; so he does better than he might otherwise (for example, he can read Phalorm Elvish). Some of the book has even older forms that are much harder, but Maireagh recognises some Dwarven stems. It's from a time when Elves and Dwarves were much closer. Between Maireagh (history dirty 21) and Temo (history dirty 19) (DC 20), they realise there's only a certain period when this happened - the Dwarven kingdom of Belsimer, during the Elven empire of the Earlaan; the only Dwarvish empire that built cities above the ground, in the area now known as the Dessarin Valley, roughly where we are (or at least, are headed). The (then much longer) High Forest bordered the empire. We find histories, geneaologies, stories of their cities and trade, conquests, magics, engineering and more; the creation of Stone Bridge, a particular bridge of note that crosses the Dessarin River; Riglan and Nethza joins in; we figure out that the book was probably written during that empire, 5500 years ago. The book is 5500 years old. It was already ancient when Mormesk the Wizard - pre-Wraith! - acquired it. The annotations and history end with the retreat of the Belsimer empire, following the 8th wave of orcish assault - after the fall of their overland cities - and with the return to their underground cities including creation of the underground fortress city of Tyar-Besil. That signalled the aid of the alliance between the Dwarves and Elves, because the Elves didn't come to their aid - that was in Riglan's last dream at Deepgarden Keep.

**(Note that these insights are gleaned over the next few evenings, studying the book as it captures our attention).**

There are some extra sheets added in, in Elvish, with corroborations and explanations (e.g. the elves were in an internal battle with another Elven power that'd been corrupted by fiendish blood, so they weren't being entirely heartless; they felt over-stretched with what amounts to a civil war). There are words that nobody understands which we think are names of books that have more information.

At the very end,someone seems to have added in a fold-out map, carefully sewn into the binding. Only two pages of the map have survived - the folded parts got severed over time, it seems. A map of the location of the ruins of the Dwarven Belsimer Empire overland fortresses. It seems to have paths that indicate where Tyar-Besil would've been created. Hard to tell where they are though; landmarks are outdated, scale is off and so-on. Hand-drawn map problems. At least we know it's in the Desarin valley.

On the night of day 45, we camp. On Riglan's watch towards the end of the night, he suddenly notices in the distance a large looming shape in the mist. It's very large. The top part is probably above the mist. It seems to be heading away, but then stops and turns towards the camp. It's probably about 600ft away.  Riglan calls an owl Familiar, asking it to fly out to see if it can distract this creature; if not, fly back and let us know what it is, so we can alert it. Riglan figures that the owl must've reached it but it is still heading towards us, so Riglan wakes the others but we try to be really quiet in case it's not noticed us and is just coincidentally coming this way. We figure we've got time to break camp and get back onto the road - we flee successfully - but the others didn't get a good night's sleep. Nethza and Temo are unfortunately exhausted for the next day.

The owl catches up; **the creature was a giant**, but ignored the owl. We figure it was a lucky escape.

## DAYS 46-49

**Riglan adores this travelling** - every day brings something new and he's in nature. He grows closer every day to his companions. He learns more about driving the wagon as they go, specifically regarding how he works with the animals pulling them. Over the days of travel, a set of ten insanely good Animal Handling roles including a Nat 20, **he gains proficiency of persuasion, albeit only only animals** (the caveat being the reason why not 1/2 proficiency).

For three of the days in or near the Evermoors there's not much grazing, so the horses need additional feed. We do better for foraging with good going for 3 days but 2 days draw on rations. We all - including the mules and horse - have an apple every day.

On **day 46**, after the giant the other night, Temo is let off watch. We can't find a good camp site so camp about 10 minutes off the road. Again on Riglan's watch, he notices three lights floating 300ft away at his chest hight (about 6ft). They seem to be travelling along in a way that means they get close but won't actually reach us. He realises these are ghostly, illusion lights. After a while they're only 200ft away. They might get within 100ft at closest point. Riglan waits. As they get closer, he realises these are lanterns being carried by almost transparent figures who don't notice him at all. They're talking to each other but he can't make out the words. They're headed towards a hill maybe 200ft away. Riglan tells the dog to guard camp; approaches the lights and says "hello" but they don't respond. Riglan thinks he can make out that they're carrying baskets and bags of stuff. Riglan follows. One has a leather jacket and wears a knee-length skirt. Two seem to be in trenchcoats, male, but have pigtails. One has a jaunty hat. They're armed.

They walk up the first hill and down the other side. As soon as we crest the hill Riglan sees a shipwreck! Not ghostly - this is real. In the hills. 'K... Riglan follows on. The figures walk between stone statues of people, go to each, taking things from their bags and baskets, handing things like bottles or food to the statues, at each point the thing they're handing over disappears. They seem to talk to each. Then they walk on and the lights flicker and disappear.

Riglan examines the nearest statue. They look like they'd once have been lifelike, except they're now weathered, covered in moss and weeds. Riglan suspects real people. The ship is wooden, but has decayed and is collapsing in on itself. It looks like the wood has been out of water for about 20 years. Riglan tries casting Healing Word on a statue; no response. A bright, full moon keeps things easy to see. Detect Magic - the statues show nothing, but the whole vail in between the hills has a weak air of enchantment. Riglan wants to help but lacks the means. He heads back to camp.

In the morning we go look. Nothing there - unsurprisingly. Maybe we need to be back here on a full moon. Riglan makes careful notes about this in his journal.

## DAY 47

Travel continues. There's some traffic on the road - we encounter another caravan, catching up to it as we're travelling quite quickly. That evening, while looking for a camp, we pass another camp only 300ft off the road on the river side, so Riglan waves and says "hello". One looks briefly shocked while the other waves enthusiastically. We go over and Riglan tries to put them at ease. There are four people. They don't know what Riglan *is*! Riglan explains his race. One asks if we're adventurers - yes! - so he heads to his cart and pulls out a chest. He opens it and says they're traders. They buy and sell curiosities and shows us some things. Detect Magic: Riglan sees 3 items with magical auras.

* A rope with abjuration (protection) and transmutation (change) magic.
* Something which looks like a large river stone, but also like it is the purest, white sandstone with a very polished texture, almost impossibly clean; an enchantment is upon that one.
* One of the chests has some vials of liquid and other things which Riglan realises are significantly colder than the surrounding air. The magic is evocation.

He asks about the stone. It's from the Star Mounts. Very curious. He demonstrates - touches the stone to Riglan's muddy boots and says a word; the boots become perfectly clean, as if professionally cleaned and polished to the highest standard. As for the rope - it's a 50ft hempen rope of mending. He demonstrates again - he throws the end of the rope into the fire and pulls it back out; the burned part regrows. Riglan asks what would happen if he were to cut it - say, in half. There's another demonstration - the cut parts don't do anything themselves, but when the sections are put end to end, a command word makes them knit together. The vials in the chest contain an anti-toxin and a potion of poison resistance, amongst other things. Riglan asks for prices on the rope, stone and anti-toxin. The anti-toxin is 50gp (advantage on saving throws against poison for one hour). **The stone is 35gp. The rope costs 75gp.** We aren't sure if we'd ever have the presence of mind to use the anti-toxin! Temo steps in to bargain for the rope and stone, but doesn't do amazingly (persuasion 5+10). Even so, they offer to bargain one healing potion at 50gp for the rope and stone. Riglan offers them an extra one, and in the end it's agreed - 100 silvers (10 gold) plus the two potions for the rope and stone.

Obviously, Riglan gives them 20gp and two potions. They share some information about the area in return - especially pointing out a few really good camping spots, especially for eels in a river bend. We thank them, make camp and do indeed find many eels (this ends up being our Nat 20 survival roll, via RP).

At the camp, Temo runs around with the cleansing stone like a little kid giggling and cleaning everything - including the two mules and draft horse. Riglan reports that they are "bemused".

## DAY 48

We come across a strange, orderly queue of people off the main road, accessed via a cobblestone path about 100ft long that heads into a kind of courtyard where the queue is present. They're walking up to and spending some time at a well. They're not gathering water. Temo says "what is *this* bullshittery... Riglan - you're - you're going to find this hilarious" - and asks one of the people coming back. Basically, a wishing well. Temo turns round about to say something salty - but Riglan's not there. He's already in the queue. Nethza joins Riglan, but Temo and Maireagh exchange eye rolls and wait with the cart.

After about 10-15 minutes we get to the front of the well. We notice that people spend only 30s to 60s there. Some people throw in coins. One old lady threw in a teddy bear. Riglan surmises that the "gift" is supposed to be related in some way with the wish. As we get near the front, Nethza asks if Riglan thinks it really is magic - so he finds out. He casts Detect Magic and is surprised to see weak but clear wisps and strands of magic coming out of the well, connecting to people walking away for a certain distance. When he looks down the well, he sees strong magic in the water. Conjuration - brings things into being.

Riglan throws in a gold. "I wish Danain would find the fortune that his heart desires" - and a soft voice in his head says, "Ah! A selfless wish. Granted!". Nethza gets excited when Riglan tells her. She gets briefly distressed at "selfless" but Riglan reassures her. Nethza then says - "Oh. It just says - 'when the time comes'". A polite cough behind us tells us to move on. As we get back on the cart, Nethza is quiet, but thanks Riglan for going. Riglan thanks Temo for suggesting it!

Riglan reminisces about all they've been through. Maireagh is concentrating on the armour! So Riglan suggests she takes the afternoon off and enjoy the journey. She joins them up front, leaning over the back of the front bench. We take turns.

That evening, we're travelling up a hill on the road. The map shows it closer to Yartar than it is, but is still accurate with the general relationship between nearby places. At the crest, Riglan notices barges going up the river. We can now just about make out the distant settlement of Yartar, some 20+ miles away, in the distant shimmer. Even from here it looks large. The road is wider, a proper road rather than a track, but not paved. We can't camp on a rise above the road this time, so we come off road to camp, with a fair few others dotted around. We have to rely on rations and feed. There's a flatter area up on the hill where people congregate somewhat. There's a small spring pool, surprisingly, welling up and flowing back down to the river. Part of the reason it's so popular for camping overnight; but no trees - there have ben fewer and fewer as we get closer. More and more open plain with apparently felled trees. Riglan's a bit disturbed by that and mentions the lack of foraging or animals to the party. We join in with the camping and find a spot. After food and tea, Riglan looks around at the people nearby to if anyone looks interesting! He wanders around a bit - as a Firbolg. He doesn't disguise himself - it feels like being deceptive at the start of trying to meet new people.

There are about 8 groups of people. One wagon has about 4 dwarves and donkeys. The others are pretty much humans, but some half elves scattered around, except one group of again about 4, burly looking, dressed very differently; similar kind of near-uniform, thick studded dark/black-brown leather armour, but individually adorned. One is noticeably bigger. Not human...? Looks almost like he's solid, like he's made out of rock. Riglan approaches and starts to introduce himself, but they stand and the bigger one puts a hand on his chest to stop him. "No further, stranger. We have nothing that you want" - they are heavily armed and lay hands on swords.

Riglan tries to convince him that he just wants to talk, and doesn't mean to offend, but the guy is not budging. "We are not here for conversation". Riglan wishes him well and returns to his party. Riglan's sure the guy wasn't human tho - nearly as tall as Riglan. Very muscular but definitely parts of that definitely looked like actual rock; deep, resonant voice, rumbly almost, one normal eye and one looked like it was made out of carved gemstone. Where his hand was on Riglan's chest, is what seems to be dry dirt or soil; earth; as a handprint. But his hands hadn't been noticeably dirty. Riglan tells people about the encounter. Looking across, he notices that they're quite unfriendly; but also they're eyeing up and watching another group, but there are two in line of sight that they might be watching.

Temo says, "you know what? I'm very charismatic!" and strides over towards the angry group with his best friendly face on. This time the big guy stays seated. Another stands up and looms over Temo. Temo goes into full stream-of-consciousness (persuasion 14+10) but gets interrupted - "You're very, very close to causing trouble; and if it goes there, it's out of my hands. Just have a moment and think about whether this is *that* important to you". Temo says "well, of course not. Thought it was worth a try". He returns to the party. He sits next to Riglan kind of sulking.

Now they're watching us as well as the kids or dwarves. Riglan's feeling mischevious... Temo likewise. Riglan goes to chat with the dwarves, Temo with the kids - well, actually, not really kids. The humans are in their 20s and the half-elf - oh, actually two half-elves, just one is much harder to spot as such - is harder to guess. They're a performing group! Temo asks if he can join in with the music. They kind of reluctantly agree, partly because they think Temo might not keep up. Yela, one half-elf, has a complex, many-string instrument that's like a much better made, complex lute, with a big bowl shaped chamber, a long neck and 8 strings. One human plays a flute, but made of metal. The other half-elf has another string instrument akin to a sitar. So Temo gets out his best drums. The three get started and Temo tries to pick up the rhythm. He picks it up well (Intelligence 16 + 3 + proficiency 3). He realises that they're playing something deliberately complicated. Performance (Adv.: 11, then 17 + 7) - so they're actually a bit surprised. Yela makes it even *more* complex, but everyone manages to pick it up, including Temo. This breaks the ice and the group stop being frosty. He has a great time.

Riglan says hi to the dwarves, trying not to be distracted by the rising music volume. He says he hopes they're having a good journey and enquires politely if they're travelling North or South. Riglan says he might know of good work that way - they say they're hoping to head to the hills towards some mines. They're intending to cross paths with a delegation from Mirabar that's coming down by road, who will then switch to a barge at the Subrin & dropped off at Yartar; these dwarves want to intercept the delegation to collect something that they need to take into the hills. Riglan mentions Deepgarden; they know the pact. Finally Riglan mentions the angry group of four - the dwarf interrupts and they raise a fake toast with all five, so that everyone gets close and they can talk quietly. "We know. They've been trailing us for four days!" - he also warns that lips can be read (!) so we should take care.

They're part of Clan Battlehammer. They're a group of archaeologists and scholars interested in excavating and understanding the ruins of Besilmir. So I Maireagh over and introduce her. She talks enthusiastically Owlbear Tower, just in case they're ever interested in helping there. They talk for a while. They head into a tent with a lamp to take a look at the book, without the angry four seeing it! Doesn't necessarily help much, but they can compare the book's map to their own. They do at least help us by narrowing down the area - somewhere in the Sumber Hills. The Stone Bridge was built they think on the river that crosses into the hills, wherein lies the heart of Besilmir. Their aim is to try and find the underground fortress; there are records as recent as 500 years ago that it was accidentally rediscovered by some human knights.

We learn that *something* happened to the city; they kind of disappeared (our book stops too early in its accounts). There could be great magical power and/or wealth. They want to find out more. It sounds dangerous - Maireagh opines it's a bit like Wave Echo Cave. We warn them to be cautious, especially given the four strange people that have been following them, and wish them well. We part company on good terms.

We get back to the camp. Temo is still playing with the group. Maireagh is concerned about the dwarves. Every now and again, Riglan tries to keep an eye on the dodgy four (perception 9+8) but can't get too much, so sends a lizard familiar over to keep an eye. He watches through it as they're within 100ft. They just sit, doing little except apparently take it in turns to watch the dwarves. The big guy kinds of shed bits of earth whenever he turns around to look. He stands slowly as a hooded figure is walking towards them. The face is obscured. They make a triangle/pyramid gesture by bringing their hands together, thumbs touching along the base, fingers touching to make the sides. The big guy stands and does the same. They turn and talk but the lizard can't follow as it'd be out of range and too obviously strange lizard behaviour. After a while they return. They make the same strange salute; the hooded figure mounts a horse and rides South.

Temo gets back. Riglan quietly informs the group of what he saw; does anyone recognise the hand gesture? No. There was no visual relationship between this character and the Black Spider.

Eventually, we go to bed. Watch is uneventful - but Riglan, yet again, notices while on watch that the group of four angry people wake up early and pack up still under cover of darkness. They mount horses that we hadn't noticed before; they look almost burlier than horses. Strange. Bulls? A cross between bulls and horses. They ride off North.

## DAY 49

When we wake, Riglan pays a visit to the dwarves and relays (without interpretation) everything he saw... For what it's worth. They worry about who they might warn. "If you can, look for a younger member of Clan Battlehammer - Darvin - who can be found here <an address of a warehouse is written down> - if you wouldn't mind letting them know, that'd be helpful, just so they're on alert". Riglan promises to do so. Before we leave, one says: "Piece of advice for you - in Yartar - that young fella - try to keep him away from The Grand Dame if you don't want to lose all your money." (It's a place, and a ship).

So, we pack up and head South and they head off North. There is a flow of traffic that we join. We're going downhill so it is easier. There are lots of barges on the river.

We see Yartar starting to loom large. There are fortifications on both sides of the river and a beautiful wide bridge across that is high enough for the barges to sail under. We see tall spires with bells ringing as we approach. Birds fly over and provide a sense of scale of immense tall stone fortified walls with buttresses, 30ft tall; what look like tiny houses along the walls at regular intervals, with people walking along. Grand gates with stone archways 20ft high. There are houses, taverns, inns, shops and more - it's very crowded and as we get closer, we realise it smells, its noisy; the river is crowded with ships and barges; at one point we see 6 side-by-side trying to squeeze past each other on the wide, slow-current river. Carts, people and oxen all over. Gates are at either end of the bridge; on the other side, appears to be a smaller fortified part of town including a red, domed building sticking up above the fortifications, which looks kind of official (St Paul's Cathedral style). A small distance away is a soaring, beautiful tower which seems sort of open - you can see through the structure, with internal spiral stairs visible - going up about 80ft to a pointed top. Outside are numerous fields and dotted windmills here and there. We can see an area that looks maybe like a harbour/port with ships berthed by piers. White and grey stone buildings, red tiled roofs; some wooden but fewer.

Guards check people on entrance and direct them. There's no fee but there is a registered. Riglan mentions that we have paperwork for the Water Baron so we're directed to the Waterbaron's Hall. It's not too late - only 3pm - and thanks to the cleaning stone, we look presentable! There's room on the main thoroughfare for the wagon, but we're advised that stabling is cheaper *outside *the fortified walls. We ride in and head to the Water Baron Hall - we'll get that done and out of the way, then figure out what's next, largely free of obligations. (Riglan's a little overwhelmed, truthfully, and relies on Temo to help with navigation; he wants to keep focus on the paperwork, then get out and use the stabling as an excuse to take moment). An urchin arrives and tries to sell us a map. Riglan asks if he can see one. They're decent enough. 2sp. Riglan buys one and thanks him (and gives him an apple).

Despite many further distractions - e.g. another map seller! - another apple given. 1sp. Cheaper! Dammit - we finally arrive at Waterbaron's Hall. Large groups and queues outside. We get told to park the wagon, which we do; queue on foot. We're told it's safe. Nethza stays with the wagon anyway, with the dog. Temo, Riglan and Maireagh queue. Between Temo and Maireagh, it "only" takes half an hour to get where we need to be. A copy of the paperwork is made; stamps and signatures on ours and theirs; a receipt; a processing fee. Of course. 5sp to file the paperwork. "Congratulations, madam; your claim has been proven. Enjoy your stay in Yartar!" - Maireagh is not impressed at the fee! But we're done.

We head out and stable the horses & park up the wagon. Pay initially for 3 nights.

It's approaching 5pm. Riglan suggests we go to Lion Shield Coster, mostly to show them the card we have and ask them where a good, basic inn is. Going through market, we see it being packed up and hear church bells ringing to tell us the time. Coster is still open fortunately. There's a lot of traffic moving along roads, especially Evermoor Way (the E-W road), rather than Morbryn's Road from the North, which we'd entered through.

The Coster building is huge. Two storey, double doors, almost the size of the entire Deepgarden market. Just a massive shop with separate counters, side rooms and so-on. Temo spots someone who should be able to help; turns out he knows Lenine from Deepgarden Keep (when we show the card); he recommends the White-Winged Griffon. Decent rooms and has a good tavern incorporated. He points out that the dock areas are noisier and more dangerous! The market is well patrolled but noisy also. The northern areas are quieter. The Winter Winds is also cheaper and decent, but smaller rooms and no food. Don't stay on Port Street! And probably not by the docks.

Riglan also enquires about dragon parts. The blood probably should go to Wallheim's. The claws are a maybe - bring it in tomorrow before 3pm so the relevant person will be present to value things. We thank him and head out.

After a brief discussion, we decide to try and get a room at the Griffon because it's quieter - the noise & fewer people was enough to sway Riglan, even though we'd kinda prefer the cheaper option. It's a nicer part of town; the Griffon is a 4-storey white and grey stone building with some nice carvings, including a stone statue of a griffon with wings outspread over the entranceway. It faces away from the road. We head in. Stairs lead up to doors that open into an area with a desk where a halfling woman greets us. This is the inn section, we're told (rather than the tavern). Individual rooms, double bed rooms (!) or family rooms. Individual rooms are 1gp ea per night or the family rooms at 25sp per night (so 75sp). We end up on the 3rd floor (better views, private residences above, hopefully quieter). We're told that the dining room is open until 10:30pm. We get two keys. Nice room. The town clock sounds 6pm.

We take a moment. That few hours in the city was exhausting!

Taking a look around, Riglan finds these to be the finest room he's seen. The softest beds, the cleanest; the bed is even large enough for his huge 8ft frame - just. Temo explains that this is the *cheap* part of town and talks about some of the places he's worked or visited before - though never stayed. This is still the nicest place he's *paid* for himself.

He says that, as busy as cities are in the day, an entirely different city comes alive at night. Temo and Nethza are more familiar with that. Maireagh just sort of works until it's done; she doesn't really have the concept of a "day". Riglan just works with the sun and moon.

Maireagh has gone as far as she can with Riglan's dragon armour, but needs a tailor to finish the job. Riglan is deeply moved. It's a beautiful piece of work. He will treasure it always. If ever he has to change to other armour, he will never sell this. It will go back to his tribe one day and forever be a part of his history.

We elect to explore. Temo mentions that the Happy Hall is the temple Sister Garele mentioned for the censer, and he'd like to visit that one in particular, but we'll do it on the way home since it's likely to be open all hours. We'll carry on past to the market area and see if a tailor is open since Maireagh is keen to get that underway, but otherwise there are places to eat and drink that we can check out.

One Foot In The Boat is a tavernacross from Happy Hall, the latter apparently having some kind of gathering or event as music plays. The tavern is very lively with people sat on outside tables, bustling activity in and out and lively music.

The market place has had the various produce stalls replaced by performers, art stalls and food stalls. We take this in visually as we pass by, but aim for Firelast's - a two storey narrow building, windows on either side, some lights on, a beautifully carved sign out the front - the lettering intricately wood carved and painted to look like embroidery - and, surprisingly, it's open. We go in and it's quite fancy - there's a reception area with full length mirrors dotted around, some arm chairs and sofas, small low tables; a lady, Melinda, approaches and welcomes us. Temo explains what we're after - she goes to fetch someone else. An older human guy comes back, 50s, very smartly dressed, and examines the armour. Seems reasonably impressed - "haven't seen something like this in, ooh, years..." - and invites Riglan to the measuring room. He's Firelast Senior - his grandfather started the shop. They take pride in their work. He fusses around doing all the measuring, and eventually says he could start tomorrow if we want. He takes us back into the other room and says Melinda will sort out a quote. She says, "father says that he could get started on it tomorrow..." and goes on to talk about trim and so-on. Some of the trim could be metal or leather, so Riglan obviously chooses leather. There's a 10 year guarantee (!). 45gp. Riglan sort of shrugs - he thought perhaps it could be more and, besides, it's the least he can do given Maireagh's work - so agrees and pays.

Before we head out, we're asked if there's anything else - and invited to "view our latest collection". Nethza and Temo are intrigued so we head upstairs. While they look, Riglan asks about selling things and ends up showing Melinda the stuff we got off the Black Spider. She is intrigued and does have someone that might want to buy it - a rather showy gentleman always looking to make a new entrance! - and takes it to try and sell on commission.

Meanwhile, Temo (wisdom check 3-1...!) finds clothes that are just in his size and all his favourite colours (i.e. all colours) with, well, lots of patterns and decorations. Typical prices for a full outfit range 50-100gp. Nethza isn't into it! The price is the issue, as far as we can tell. She'll get something if we sell enough to make it feel safe. Temo's besotted though and finds a 25gp outfit that he loves and thinks is practical, so for sure, we let him treat himself from the party funds - 25gp is nothing compared to what some of us are spending.

We grab some street food and wonder about finding a jeweller in the morning. We sample, well, kind of everything; speciality drinks and all sorts (still only 2gp total). On the map, we notice Halassa's drinks place and head that way, wondering if the goblets we got from the dragon hoard might be sold there. So we approach.

A beautiful shop! Barrels and row upon row of bottles. Looks almost like a cellar. It has a main foyer with wooden staircases heading up on either side and a set going down in the middle - neither floor is at street level. Barrels are set along the middle of the lower floor with racks and alcoves full of bottles lining both walls. It's about 8ft high so Riglan's a bit cramped; definitely a cellar feel. Upstairs, meanwhile, has kind of lounge-like sitting areas and a bar to try things out; open bottles, general paraphernalia and towards the back, it slopes down into an attached conservatory. In the middle is a tiled well with a pump of some kind with porcelain fish that style in a spouting-out-water kind of way, cascading down to fill water jugs.

We go back to the bar-like area and approach someone asking if they buy goblets. Temo does the talking as usual. Low persuasion roll (4+10) but still enough to get some interest. We're taken downstairs into the lower floor, and beyond the main shop area there's a ramp that continues deeper down with even more bottles and barrels. There's a crazy amount of stuff here, and very strange smells; it's damp. We reach a room with a table and various trophies, medals and plaques on the walls, pewter pouring carafes and some older, but empty bottles apparently for decoration (or pride?).

He takes a look. The goblets are silver, decorated with moonstones. Maireagh couldn't really guess value on these; they're more or less art objects, so the value may be more (or less) than the sum of their  component materials. Temo tries to be persuasive (13+10) on their interest. We are offered a deal, for the entire set; 20 *platinum* pieces and an indent worth 50 gold pieces of his stock (basically 50gp of credit). Temo eagerly accepts - and immediately asks who he'd speak to about his finest ale. We're enthusiastically taken up to the barman. He's shown the 50gp indent and told to help us pick something.

So, we get into questions about  the ale. Maireagh also mentions her affinity for dwarven brandy. The barman lights up at this - he has a love of it too. Various bottles are produced and tasting pours are made. Maireagh probably spends more time smelling them than tasting.

Riglan has been getting more of a taste for ale over time, but it was forest fruit concoctions that were made in his tribe. So, fruit wine? A bottle is produced from Goldenfields - so of course Riglan's interested. It's a fruit liqueur. Smells like ripe apricots. He tries it and likes it quite a lot. Funnily enough it's the smell as much or more than the taste, but the barman does remind him that it's usually diluted or used in other drinks.

Temo is definitely all about dwarven ale. Halfling mead is nice but he finds it easy enough to find. Really good dwarven ale, though, is much harder to find. He hears various names, and Adbar catches his ear, because he remembers Maireagh say she was an Adbar Silveraxe (rather than a Feldbar Silveraxe). So he asks about the Adbar. He ends up tasting several; there are bright, fruity, dark, smokey, spicey ones... The Mirabar one is actually his favourite (spicy) but he's too surprised that the deep, smokey one is Adbar because Maireagh is also into a similar style of food.

This leaves Nethza. She doesn't have childhood connections to drinks; she's just drunk stuff from the taverns where she performed. So the barman starts spending time on different things seeing what she likes. While she's having that moment, the rest of us look around. It's a chilled out atmosphere, small groups of friends; the style of dress is noticeably different here. It's very diverse. Indeed, it's got a lot more diversity of races and colours. Deepgarden was dwarves and gnomes in one area, or halflings and humans in another. Here there are all of those, plus elves, half-elves, half-orcs, more variety in skin shades across all the races, a dragonborn here and there; lots of differences. Many people look like they're travellers too. They're not poor, but don't look too wealthy either, at least not in here; traders, perhaps. One group in a corner catches Riglan's eye as they look more like adventurers, but we don't dress like them, except Maireagh maybe who has a sword and shield. Nethza's weapon is summoned and not normally visible, plus she has showy performer clothing; Riglan has just a staff and the old, big wooden shield; Temo is... Temo. The corner group look like fighters. Leather armour or in one case half-plate, lots of weapons and shields, all that.

Riglan recognises the armour (natural 20 + 8 perception) - he saw the uniform last night in the angry group. Not the same group, but the same armour. So there are more of them. He quietly points that out to Maireagh. She asks if the "secret handshake" would work with them... And suggests he could take on a disguise...

Riglan excuses himself and heads down to a low floor to find a quiet corner and casts Disguise Self to look like the hooded figure with as much of the face as he saw, making up the rest with the hood. He'd heard the tone of voice but not what he was saying, so it's a bit of a wing prayer. I head back up, walk straight to the table and (insight 12+5) noting that the half plate guy seems to be looking up at me while the others kinda shrink back, and do the hand symbol to half plate guy. He does it back. There's a sound of someone kicking under the table (heh) and a chair is pushed out.

I sit. Half plate guy says, "What news? Are there orders from Lieutenant Helen Ray?" Riglan wings it - "Things are going as planned. Have you anything new to report?" - the guy looks a little confused. Deception with advantage bad roll (12 - 1). He says, "I've not received any instructions. Has Lord Unrail expected something of us? We were told to await a signal before departing south". Riglan says, "The signal should already have been given! The other group is already headed north!" (Deception 19 - 1). "If they've headed North then our quarry has not arrived; are we to lay an ambush or just follow". Insight (10+5) - this group is simply waiting for further instructions; they've got part of plan and not all of it. I can't figure out what they've been told. Riglan tries, "Ah. I had expected them to travel more quickly. You assume correctly. Not an ambush. You are to follow." Persuasion advantage (19 - 1). The guy says he'll keep an eye out "for their arrival" as instructed and wait further orders if there are any changes. I say, "Very good", do the sign, and stand up. They say "Wait! Hold on". Riglan turns around. "The poncey air cultists are running interference again. I assume there will be no reprimands from the monastery if we taught those feathergails a lesson or two in staying out of our way?" I say "Such trivial issues are not my concern. Just be sure you don't miss their arrival." - he says "Alright boys! Let's teach them a thing or two about piggybacking off other people's work" - and Riglan walks away. There's a risk of being seen to turn back into the downstairs so I go outside. I find a quiet place and drop the disguise, then come back around and head up.

Nethza's tasting is done. She likes the cheaper, chilled, hoppy lager best. Well at least that's easy to find! Riglan says "I've just realised there's an urgent matter, we should buy quickly and head out" and buy:

* 2 bottles liqueur
* Large flagon brandy
* Small cask dwarven ale (Mirabar)
* We can't get the lager because it needs to be chilled but it's easy to find.

We shove it in the bag of holding (to the barman's surprise) having spent our 50gp credit and we scurry outside. Riglan hurridley tries to explain everything. We're thinking we might wait and follow. Temo could track them with a fey companion on his shoulder, letting Riglan and the others follow up to around 100ft behind using the companion's sight to keep up.

We try to hang out in the market waiting, attempting to be inconspicuous (group stealth - including a nat 1, oh boy) so don't do well. We stand out, just kind of obviously walking around. But we haven't seen them leave. So I suggest to Temo that he hide somewhere with a fey creature, and we'll go around the back of a different building and watch at a distance. More boring but more reliable. Riglan calls the spider, as it's harder to spot and good in the dark. We come up with a method of the spider jumping into Temp's left or right hand off his shoulder for "yes" or "no" if he asks us questions. So he hides, and we hide a distance away, and Riglan watches through the spider.

About 10 minutes or so later, the spider notices the fighter group standing outside. They turn and walk toward Port St.; Riglan has a heartstopping moment where he thinks Temo won't notice but the spider crawls on his face and THAT gets his attention. Temo follows (stealth 13+11) using Minor Illusion to look like he's a dock worker in drab clothing. Perception (19!+2) - they're walking slowly. He can track them from a fair distance. It's busy enough that he doesn't have to worry about standing out. The rest of us follow at max distance away 100ft, Riglan acting like he's blind with the staff, Nethza helping him, Maireagh following behind a distance with the dog.

Our quarry gets nearly out the gate at the city wall, but then take a side road, turning right onto Bystander's Way. They stop at a house tucked against the wall, 2 storey and about 3 windows wide. They knock. Door opens. Temo's kept at range, going only as far as he feels is safe. The spider has moved down the road. Riglan's told Nethza to keep in range by going down the parallel unnamed road that's the previous turn-off, so behind that row of houses separating the two. The spider scurries along walls and floors, sees the open door. Lead guy does the hand sign and bows. They're allowed in and the door shuts. The spider offers to creep under the door. Hell yes. So in it goes, straight up onto the ceiling. Looks around. A few people sat around. It finds the four people speaking to someone in a dark brown robe. They sit at a table and food is ladled out from a pot.

They mention that "The Messenger came". The robe person is surprised. "Yes, we thought it was strange too; but there's no change to the plan. But we do know that the Genasi and his crew have travelled North to follow the other group and find out where they're headed." The robed one says, "So, the delegation must be on the way south then. They'll be here any day." "I guess so. We still haven't received a sign..." - robed one says, "Eh, well, it'll just be a matter of time. The way of earth is slow, silent and steady." They all nod. "So, will you stay until they arrive, or will you head back to the monastery first?" "Oh no! We're going to stay. We want to find out where those feathergails are performing in town and give them an audience they'll never forget!". "Hmm. That temper of yours. You need to learn to control it, lest you become like the Fire!" This causes anger in the group of four. "We're nothing like the Fires! We're allowed to be annoyed." "Yes, but be stoic. Don't let them know they're getting to you. That's their point. They're flighty, unpredictable; both air and fire are unreliable. W'ere everything they're not. We must make sure that Lord Unrail is the 1st to get to the faen. Our time will come." The others repeat. "Our time will come". They chant, "Our time is nearly nigh".

Riglan calls the spider back, gets it to Temo. Temo says, "Where are they?" - not a yes or no question! The spider climbs onto Temo's nose. Temo says, "fine! I'll follow you" and puts the spider down. The spider and Temo join us on the parallel road and we walk back to the market area. As they're headed that way, Riglan says - "Wait, does anyone know where that address is?" - Tower Road, over the bridge. Riglan apologises and says he doesn't think it can wait; he'll explain on the way.

At the city walls, the guards check if we're coming back as we cross - we certainly hope so! After 10pm? It's 8pm now. If not, we need papers. They hand us the papers! LOL. OK. So we take those, thank them.

As we head towards the bridge, the Morning Spire is evidently candlelit with lanterns and braziers in a courtyard garden; it's beautiful.

The bridge is a welcome distraction. Wide enough for maybe 3 wagons to go side by side, it's grand and beautifully made, arching up in the middle with arches underneath for ships. Looking South, the Grand Dame isn't there, but we were told it sails out at dusk so that's not too surprising. The river is otherwise still full of ships, both docked and anchored mid-river. Row boats are ferrying people back and forth. The guards greet us at the other side and remind us about a 10pm curfew - we must be out from that side of the city beforehand. The Western Citadel has a 10pm off-the-streets curfew.

We hurry to the address. This side has none of the market or taverns; looks like businesses, residences and official looking places like the Shield Tower with armed guards patrolling the walls. Through the gate, rank-and-file do drills, even this late at night. The undertower is impressive, especially up close. We walk through a giant stone arch to the warehouse address. Adbar Trading Coster. We knock.

The large barn door slides open and a dwarf appears. We tell him that we're an urgent message from Lurek Battlehammer. We're ushered inside and taken into an office. He says his name is Torval Battlehammer.

Riglan relays the information. The main concern is the delegation from Mirabar, coming down here soon, restocking at Coster, heading to Belliard & Westbridge on the way to eventually Waterdeep. One of them has something for the abbey (a "nature church", not really a religious thing) at Goldenfields. They're meeting Leirol Silverhand herself at Waterdeep, who is now post-war de facto leader of the Lords Alliance Council.

He doesn't know Unrail, "faen", a monastery etc.; does suggest the Grand Library or other independent libraries, scrollkeepers etc. or the temples. Or ask at the Three Rivers Festhall. He at least does say that he'll send information ahead of the delegation down south as a precaution. They're supposed to come directly to Coster after arriving by boat. They're likely to stay the Pipe.

We've said what we can, so shrug and we all part company as everyone needs to be away by 10pm. We get back through the city walls (handing back the paperwork / pass). It's late and we're tired. We decide then to finish up, and drop in at Happy Hall. Temo realises it's a temple to Temorah, the goddess of luck. This cheers him up. We've got the censer and covering note; we look around and find an attendant. They lead us to an apse at the back where a priest in charge - who looks more like a bard! - welcomes us to the Happy Hall. We explain and hand over Sister Galaele's note and give them the censer. They're very happy with this as an offering. He asks if he can make a record of it in the book of contributions; we tell him Temo Smoothhands & Company of Owlbear Tower.

**He places the censer at the central altar and blesses the four of us. We feel somewhat inspired - lucky, maybe (we each get to re-roll one D20 roll of our choice once).** We thank him in kind and return to the inn to finally get some much-needed sleep. Before going to bed, Riglan looks across the city wall from the balcony outside the window. He can see various camp fires, but can see a lot of them - maybe 30-40.
