# Riglan: Part 1

POTENTIAL BACKSTORY:

In around 1490 DR (not that this calendar was known to them), Riglan and his clan became increasingly concerned about both unusual weather activity to the north and very erratic dragon flight and behaviour patterns across the region. This was heightened by the strange sounding of some kind of horn in the autumn of the preceding year, which caused many animals to be very startled and for some species to behave strangely for months thereafter.

In the Spring of 1490, after a particularly severe winter and with unusually cold weather persisting, there were unusual giant incursions into the northern reaches of The Lurkwood with many animals taken and many trees felled. After a welcome hiatus in apparent presence and activity of Chromatic dragons, the Summer of 1490 saw another strange period of strange behaviour and although the forest was not directly attacked, this was enough for the clan to consider that further investigation may be warranted.

The clan, while unaccustomed to interacting with people beyond their own, recognised that they lacked any means to gain more insight into these events; assistance was needed. Riglan was chosen to head North, reach the foothills of the Spine and traverse the border between the woods and hills East, finding and following the river with the aim of reaching a large known settlement many miles in that direction (Mirabar), in the hope of finding people who might be able to help investigate and perhaps even resolve whatever strange events were causing such disturbances.

Father: Adlar Woodmaster (Carpenter)
Mother: Ennala Fastspear (Huntress)

ACTUAL SESSION ZERO
CAMPAIGN THREE
THE WANDERER
PROLOGUE

Riglan's clan is unusually large and has around 30 people in it, on average. They live in caverns up against the mountain foothills. He has never seen a map, so is aware of the woods and mountains etc., but doesn't know much else. Really only what you can see from viewpoints and so-on. They're on a long mountain range, and can't see ocean; that's about it.

He has no special ability to move through forest at speed, so it still counts as difficult terrain. While he, like his clan, is curious and has spent days wandering the forest, he almost never leaves it (intentionally) and besides it takes 9 days to traverse from his clan's caves to the opposite side (along that axis) of the woods (and 9 days back). He only did this long trek once, with a travelling elder, at ~30 cycles age (rite of passage, of sorts, aimed to return to the clan home on the day just before actually turning 30). The things they protect and the things beyond. In his 100 years, he's only ever left the woods 8 times (of which that was one). The 2nd time was curiosity, again still young and really breaking the rules, but found a useful artefact (tool, or similar) in a marketplace and this encouraged further visits. Unless other members of his clan have been similarly covert, they won't have had the same experience; his wanderer hunter/gatherer role has given the opportunity. His elder mentor is well aware, but Riglan thinks he's kept it secret. (NB: At their DM-ruled speed, the 9 days covers about 110 miles).

The 9 day rite, including interaction in Disguise Self as a test, means that a 30yo would be interacting with societies expecting a name. So along the way, they give themselves a name - one thing they like the sound of, one thing they think they're good at. It's mutable, but most of the clan don't choose to change it once chosen. They're reminded of their stories, history, legends, traditions etc. of their clan and their race, to highlight the dangers of other cultures and their own role; and they're reminded that the woods seem huge, but are fragile (this gets more apparent as they approach the edge of the woods). This 30yo is becoming an adult and will be responsible for protection.

Other rites of passage included e.g. being taken into the mountains for the "view of the world", to be walked (when young - e.g. 15) 2 days from the caverns and left alone to make their way back. It's a way to try and force the connection with the natural world. Speak to animals etc., to get help - the forest isn't scary, it's home.

Turning 100 is a big deal in the clan. A century. Leading up to his birthday, there is excitement and a tradition; on your birthday, you can reflect and think about your role in the tribe. Continue or change? He would continue, but for the strange visions / dreams of disaster. He wants to be excited, but the dreams have been escalating and are a distraction. It feels like things are escalating, but he doesn't know what those things are.

Riglan leaves in the morning for his last short hunt 2 days before his 100th. Out one day, maybe camp out, come back with whatever he gathered. He decides to head West. The 9 day trip was SE, so he knows that this is the short edge of the woods trip. He wants to go deeper to find more things. Near end of spring, almost summer, but the cold is still quite severe. It's late. Bad weather in the mountains prevails. He can't remember the last time the weather was this bad for this long. Might be half a year since he last saw the peaks - always covered in cloud. Animals have been a bit off; nervous, frantic almost sometimes. Signs of unusually large creatures (giants) crashing through forest - breaking trees etc., big footprints headed South, 6-9 months or so; the clan hunters are aware but kept it quiet unless it threatened home - didn't want to cause panic. It abated a little. Riglan's heading that way now, and wonders how things will look. He doesn't find so much close by - animals have been flighty and more scarce - so thinks he'll need the full day out and back.

Finishes breakfast, waves to people. Younglings are out playing, other hunters are headed out in other directions. A calm, normal day. Heads out. First half day, finds not much. Second half of day, finds a couple of decent size wild pigs and ends up with a couple of 15lb each carcasses. It slows him down but not too much. As he starts to move on, he feels a strange change in the atmosphere / vibe. Animals seem on edge here, but there seem to be way more animals than expected which is how come he managed to get the pigs. But hey, there are grouse. I set down the two carcasses. I get right up behind one (nat 20 stealth) & hit with quarterstaff, and get another with frostbite. This is weirdly successful - suddenly I've food for about 10 people. It's getting heavy now, in fact, so I find a clearing on a bit of a rise to make camp.

A cluster of birds are startled to the South and fly away. They don't seem to return. I climb a tree and can't see anything to the South particularly. I sleep OK without the disturbing vision. Weather seems to be turning as I gather a few extra tubers for the clan before breaking camp. I climb a tree to look for patterns. Takes a couple of attempts as I wake up! Second time goes well. Weather isn't coming down from mountains; seems to be coming from the south. Huge cloud bank rolling quickly over the forest. Animals again jumpy, birds seem to be flying away from it. As the thundercloud comes overhead, I can see snow and ice apparently falling off it - not rain & humidity/thunder. It almost looks briefly like there's an iceberg in it?! It flows overhead and across to the mountains. Extremely weird. Too fast for a normal cloud, leaves good weather in its wake. I'll ask at the clan. Time to go.

I get back in the early evening. Other hunters are back and had good pickings too. Suddenly a bounty of food! A slow cook is started on prepared meat ready for the birthday tomorrow. There is dancing and merriment. I take a moment out to speak to druid Areni ("Arrenn-eye") Cloudwatcher, discussing the strange weather. He's my mentor (at least 200yo). He's seen these before - he calls them "anvil clouds". Fast moving and can change direction! He considers them to be dangerous clouds. Unpredictable. Lie low and wait for them to pass. Maybe it's a good sign, since they're rare and it coincides with the strange bounty of food and my 100th birthday?

He asks about my decision tomorrow, to continue hunting or change role. We discuss the visions. He'll conduct a ritual so we can ask the forest together, but we'll do it after the party to avoid worrying anyone else with what might be nothing of importance. (Divination ritual). He says that maybe my path will be different; once every century or so, there's someone who has a new story, their path taking them on exploration beyond the clan, to the rest of the world. It is what builds the stories they tell in the coming of age rites. This can take people away for a long time - possibly decades or centuries - until they return, sharing what they have learned and understood. Perhaps a new location - a new context - will help the dreams/visions go further, last longer or be more clear.

Besides, sometimes Firbolgs can act as ambassadors; they find allies, but also convey the importance of protecting the forest. I thank him and we part company to sleep.

Day of 100th birthday: 2nd day of summer. That night I had particularly bad version of the vision, but the dream finished before becoming clear. It's hard to remember any details. After waking up, I shake it off. It's a good morning, then the tradition comes around to ask what my path will be. I explain it will be Wanderer.  Some of the oldest clan members nod - it's been a long time (at least 2 centuries) since there was a wanderer. Others are more unsure. We talk about why, and how it was only decided last night, with people including parents being ultimately supportive.

Areni is ready for this. He hands me a backpack with some proper adventurer's kit, including a "proper" bed roll. My parents give me my (also wanderer, ~200 years of wandering!) great grandfather's leather armour. They think I'm about his size and indeed it fits well. Ornately carved, well made (evidently, it's very old). So I end up with adventurer's clothes from the clan, even boots for long walks. Some rations are brought together. My mother gives me an old trophy that she had hung around her neck; it's the bony snout of a large fish, which is the first she ever caught. Finally, Areni hands me a small cloth pouch with 10 gold pieces and explains how they're used. I understand the concept, but have never actually handled any before and needed the basics on copper/gold/silver.

We continue to celebrate, for both the birthday and the role. In the afternoon, everyone says goodbyes; and with that, I head out.

# CAMPAIGN THREE
## CHAPTER 1: THE WANDERER
### DAY 1

After 6 days - faster than the 9 when I was only 30 and couldn't move so quickly through the forest - of basically uneventful travel, trees thin, the quality of light changes and I arrive near the southern edge of the forest. I have to leave home behind now. It is the afternoon of the 6th day. I disguise myself as a human of similar appearance to myself, the same way I have since my first rite of passage here, but 6ft tall and enter the village I've visited occasionally before.

Humans hunt and chop trees here. Every time I visit the village seems a little bigger; fewer trees. As a result the village centre is now further away from the forest edge than it once was. Farmland / crops in between, people scattered around. There is a road nearby which I get to by a deliberately round-about track, then follow to the village. It's busy and initially jarring; I almost lose my bearings but do hold composure.

Further along there is a big building that I think is some kind of temple. I'd been told it wasn't of interest to our clan before, but now I'm a wanderer and curious. I go in. She welcomes me to **Sungift**, so now I know the village name. Turns out it's for Chauntea, the provider. One of the people there tells me there are a few inns nearby at the market, with a cheaper, quieter one off Cherry Crossing.

In the market I notice more barter than currency; but experiment and buy 2 fish from Peter for 3 coppers, who directs to the smoking place to get them preserved - tell them his name & don't let them charge more than 2 coppers (!). In the end it costs 3 because I roll low but they will also salt the fish to preserve them further.

Back in the market is a Halfling bard doing a very good performance. We end up talking and go to the tavern next to the smokehouse - I realise that I had forgotten to dispel Disguise Self before meeting people and now they think this is what I look like, but it'll wear off in a minute. He introduces himself as Temo Smoothhands. At the tavern, Timo introduces me to Briony who runs the place. We have bread & cheese plus ale (5cp) & later 2 big bowls of stew (2cp each) with bread too.

Temo's hamlet - him and his brothers lived on farm with parents, but crops were failing. Parents went missing. Brothers still looking after farm, but Temo had wanderlust. He mentions Nesmay. He prefers cities to villages - they pay in coin, not bits of bread. Temo sleeps basically rough near the Inn Riglan was going to visit, but recommends Riglan saves money by walking the 20ish mins back to the forest. He can hunt there to get them food for the road.

They watch the sunset from the top of the temple. Riglan goes to the forest to sleep. He sleeps well, without visions.

## DAY 2

In the morning, Riglan hunts. He finds a pig and takes it to the butcher and smoker for the bits he keeps. Temo is missing though; Riglan goes to his sleeping place, signs of scuffle; tracks prints to a small house, there's a scuffle with someone who had tied up Temo to take to "his client" and I end up knocking out that guy, tying him up stabilised and Temo and I hide in a barn. Short rest & Temo is conscious. We decided to return to the house as Temo knows the assailant; it's half elven bard called **Danain Martorin**. We try to persuade him to an alternative course of action. Danain throws off his ropes which weren't really tied well. It turns out Temo took a box from the mayor's house which turns out to be heirlooms. One was swapped for his drum; the other bits were going to be sold in the next town and the money given away, but Temo never got the chance. We convince Danain to go and dig up the remaining bits.

We head to a hut of a leather worker and convince him to swap the ring for gold to the value of the drum. Turns out he'd tried to porn it for gold and discovered it was stolen due to a Mayoral inscription on the inside. We head to the porn shop to clear the leather worker's name, and find out that they'd reported it to the guard, so we head immediately to the mayor's house. The mayor is actually meeting head of the guard at the time. Danain convinces the major to take his now-completely returned valuables & Riglan eases the mayor's concerns about his reputation by saying that the mayor has kept things quiet & handled it well. But - we have to leave town the next day. Danain gets paid part of his fee; 27gp instead of 50. Outside, he gives 7 to me and 7 to Temo.

(150xp, bringing us up from zero).

That night at the tavern it's fun and we play tunes but it's a little sad as Temo has to say goodbye to Briony (who it turns out is pregnant). He doesn't know if he can come back any time. Riglan vows to look after him and, if he is ever back this way, try to find her and let her know how he's doing.

We go back to Danain's hideout (an empty house, owners away) and set up to sleep. Tomorrow, we'll have to leave town. We decide to head towards Silverymoon, stopping at towns along the way.

## DAY 3

After we pack and clean up, Danain gets himself some supplies from town. He's unconvinced about the three of us, especially given my lack of experience outside the forest. We get on the road and walk. It's about a day to the next village. I try to strike up conversation with Denain but it's somewhat awkward and stilted. He's not friendly.

The only road out of town that isn't back towards the forest heads South. We follow it for a while before we'll reach a place that has several other roads giving us more direction options, including Silverymoon.

We reach Ircharest near the day's end. It's a lumber waystation of sorts, just a small town. Warehouses, lumberyard. Woods nearby. Not the same farming vibe. Quite a large inn. Danain goes in and gets a room for himself; Temo and Riglan end up in a downstairs room with a bigger bed that we share, but it still costs a whole gold piece. At least it comes with a dinner each and has a small tub we can use to wash up. We have dinner, discussing plans (there aren't any really) and eventually head off to bed.

Riglan has glimpses of the visions and dream again that night. He awakes in the middle of the night, and tries casting Detect Magic on himself to see if he can see anything; there's nothing useful.

## DAY 4

Riglan has a flash of insight - Danain's bluster hides an insecurity. He's very smart and an entertainer, who likes money and needs more than he can get from entertaining. That's why there's bounty hunting. His deflection and brusque manner arise from him hating to be wrong, but yet being indecisive - he overthinks it. Too many options, not enough weight.

Over that day of travel and the overnight camping, I notice that Temo is kind of absent minded, imaginative, enthusiastic about things, not too aware of his surroundings; and yet he seems to avoid hazards somehow. It's almost like he's blessed by some uncanny luck - stumbled near a wagon but just fell *away* from it; got distracted by a butterfly just before tripping in a pothole, so avoided it; went to grab a rotten tree branch once, missed it and in so doing, grabbed a solid one. No wonder he seems happy-go-lucky!

In the evening, camping out, I do quite well as we're in the wild. We're able to make a small shelter that hides our camp, a rock we can sit on for watch but hide things below, along with 3 grouse and water.

## DAY 5

Towards the evening, we reach the outskirts of Verrunsgard, approaching from the North. The town has walls made of both stone and wood, with carvings and an age indicating several hundreds years of presence.

We buy at map at Bjarven's Library, then on his recommendation (his cousin runs it!) go to the Tallguy's Rest inn; Bjarven warns us before we leave that street performance requires a licence/writ from the Marshal's Office and says that there is also often work at the stables if good with horses. Both Bjarven and the Tallguys Inn cousin are similar - tall for a human, blonde and kind of Viking-y. Called Tarril Sr., Tarril Jr also there. We get an "adventurer's room" for the three of us, which even has a small bathroom, getting a deal for a week at 5gp "only" all-in. We go to Pojjenheidden hoping to find food. It's a busy indoor market, and food is there; we eat in. We talk about options for finding work.

Later we wander about a bit. The streets aren't lit and while Temo and Riglan struggle a bit, Danain seems fine. We learn that he can see in the dark. We try going into the Hoppenbock tavern - super busy and ridiculously expensive :-/ - but the Dwarven ale, Deep Mithral Gold (but made here, from their recipe) is served in giant steins and really good. But still - 3sp each. Wow. Eventually we back to our inn (Temo kind of drunk).

## DAY 6

We check the job board in the morning.

* Longsaddle caravan guard - must have own mounts - 1gp per guard per day
* Find 3 missing persons - 100gp reward.
* Mining guard duty is not listed.
* Investigate disturbances in farmsteads to the west by order of the marshal - danger moderate to high - 100gp
* Guarding rich people going hunting is listed but pay not offered. See Huntmaster Alwyn at the Longhouse

We go to see Alwyn and agree to go on a hunting escort thingy with a noble. We are assigned to Lord Fenruss of Deepgarden. Must return before sundown. 50gp, with deductions for e.g. not catching anything, unhappy noble, injury and so-on.

We head out to woods nearby, with Riglan spotting deer and boar tracks, including one that looks like a much bigger boar. Riglan advises that the stag is the greater test of skill, but the boar offers more food. Fenruss goes for the stag, so we need to be stealthy. We do quite well tracking and approaching stealthily. On the first attempt, Fenruss misses. We chase and on the second he misses, but Riglan basically quietly cheats by using Entangle. Fenruss rolls a 19 and hits, so we's happy. All he wants is the head, so we get back to town, get paid (an extra 10gp in fact - 60 in total) and are given the rest of the deer. We get it smoked/cured for most of it, taking some to Pojjenheidden to be cooked and shared around.

With that happening, we meet a dwarf stallholder selling strange trinkets. She wasn't here the previous day - it looks like a temporary stall. She is quite old; older than I've met before - Riglan estimates in the late 100s (says she comes every 5th day or so; has a shop but it's quiet over there - (work)shop is Tink About It). I exchange meat for a mechanical songbird.

We decide after some ale to try the 100gp "trouble to the west" job, and go to the Marshal office to find out more about that job. It turns out that the missing people job is related - 3 people went missing as part of the troubles. Half a day's ride; marshal will underwrite horse hire, so we don't pay deposit, just rent. We'll leave now and camp en route; we gather anything we might've left at the inn, let them know we're away, get the horses and head off. (Est. around 10 miles West, with some copses, small woods accessible along the way), along low hills, not just farmland - more wild for most of it. We rid until almost dark, so we just about have time to set up camp; we leave around 5, ride til 8. Gets us about 3/4 of the way.

Takes a while to find a camp (bad roll!) but we do get one, it's just quite a long way off the road and we can't see from the road from it. There's a spring and Riglan is able to find plenty to eat in the woods for us and the horses. We set up watch - Riglan, Temo, Danain. It is uneventful, though Danain falls asleep! We think he'll prefer to go first next time.

## DAY 7

After more foraging, we head off around 9 and by half ten we're at the cluster of small farmsteads. There are four, plus a larger storehouse close to the road. We approach that first. People there are wary but we get talking. They've had raids - thefts. Not food, or animals; but the houses had strange things taken; religious artefacts mostly. We go with them to one of the houses (Clara, elder, lives with husband Jonathan, her kids having left home years back), nearest to the storehouse. The families from the farmsteads gather there. The person we're speaking to is Shera, children Tomas & brother Filis. The two other families arrive - older teenager Patrick & mother Deann ("de-anne"); other family Molly with son Ben & daughter Bertie. We notice no grown men, curiously; three of the four husbands are the people who went missing (Jonathan, Mat (Shera's husband), Lemis (Deann's husband) and the fourth (Art, Molly's husband) went searching but hasn't come back. Left 3 days ago. They followed weird tracks after the most recent raids and show us the direction (towards woods / hills); the "forbidden" woods - nobody lives there; certainly no bandits. It was strange - some heavy things were taken/dragged. 

They are strangely reluctant to show us exactly what's taken, but we persuade them. We are taken to a small shrine, but is empty. We see there would have been places for a small statue, urn and chest, but everything is missing. They're still being cagey. We say we'll keep whatever they say secret - clearly they are worried about sharing. So they take us to the one shrine left intact. It's back at the barn/storehouse. Via a *metal* trapdoor - damaged as if someone tried to force entry but failed (Riglan can see that it likes different kinds of creatures have tried, tool scratches and claws, all sorts of things) - there's a sort of altar and statues. There are blood trails on the altar. They sacrifice goats once every six cycles of the moon; they worship "old gods", of names not even any longer known. Clara claims that they had hard times and no kid/goat, missed on sacrifice and since then, the attacks started. Molly disagrees - just a ritual - but Clara insists these things have power.

After the sacrifice, usually, they'd make up a brew with the blood and bones and use it to fertilise the fields. The skin and head are taken to the edge of the woods and left at an altar there. It is forbidden to enter, for this is the domain of the old gods. The farms are on their land; this, Clara says, is the price of holding this land. But it looks like this woodland pact is broken already; so perhaps we have to go in, as either way, they leave the farms or we find people.

We get permission to go into the woods. They give us torches to help. They're wrapped with rosemary, so that when they burn they'll smell. They take us to the altar at the edge of the woods. It's old and rough hewn. It's Temo that recognises it, from time spent at a college in Luskan. It is of Illusk empire make - more than 1000 years old. I light the torch; Clara lights a bundle of rosemary, honey, beeswax etc and places it on the altar saying it should help guide people home. Riglan can see that this is indeed an old forest.

We head in, Riglan taking care to note the path. The tracks are actually easier to follow because it's not messed up by all the people. We estimate at least half a dozen different and heavy looking footsteps, plus drag marks. It's easy enough to follow. Riglan judges them to be mostly a week old, with one newer set - guessing that was Art. It's slow going, though. Our "special" torches will give us about 3 hours of light and, as Clara said, it does get quite dark. The trees look very old and it gets damp, almost starting to look boggy or swampy. The tracks don't avoid any of it, making it hard to follow sometimes because of the wet patches. Interestingly, the footprints are roughly human sized but they're heavy. Some are dragged as if someone was walking poorly, dragging their own feet.

After an hour, Riglan's torch runs low. I take Temo's torch and we continue. We now get to a truly ancient part of the woods. The trees are more wiry and almost stunted. The area feels different and strange. Two short stone obelisks, 8ft tall, overgrown; more of the runes from the altar. We can't read it. The ground starts t try out as we proceed and we see what looks like almost an old road; the trail goes that way, but we lose it because we reach overgrown flagstones, rather than mud. We spot an overgrown building and stealthily approach... well, except Riglan (rolls a 2!).

There are signs of footsteps etc. around this building, which is on slightly raised, drier ground. We find an entrance. Inside, amongst the decay and ruins, we determine that this used to be a temple. We find some very long dead bodies above stairs heading down - but the stairs don't seem to have been used recently. Riglan pushes open the heavy, old door at the bottom and we emerge into a hewn-out cavern of some kind. Only about 15ft high. We enter, with Danain guarding the stairs (dark-vision). Sort of a stone circle, with a raised altar in the middle. Same writing as the other stuff we've seen. Doesn't quite align with old gods; Illusks didn't worship "old" gods - primordial, savage nature gods - they worshipped their own, which are comparatively new. 

Danain on watch rolls 1, doesn't see in time. Shouts "watch out!" - people are coming down the stairs - "look lively - they look like skeletons to me!" - over course of battle, 3 skeletons, 2 zombies and one lady wizard. She is mostly concerned with a fallen skeleton, seems distressed. We just manage to dispatch the undead, barely, and talk with her. Turns out she's Clara's daughter, who'd been tasked with tending to the ancient priests - the undead - had been tasked with maintaining this shrine/temple and looking after them, so was distraught at her apparently failure as they were destroyed. They were rampaging because of the failed sacrifice. Her magic isn't strong enough to revive them though. She's very upset. We do manage to convince her to help us find Art, but the other three died trying to battle the undead. Riglan checks magic at the tomb and we all find a way to seal them so they don't rise again. We take the three and her (Kyla) back to the farmsteads; the wounds on the three look like they might be at risk of themselves rising and starting the cycle again.

Things get very heated. Clara is blamed for being heartless about her daughter and hiding the undead, tho that's not really true. Shera and Deann say that they'll leave. Riglan points out that nobody knew what was really going on, that this has been done for generations and now things are sealed so they should just protect the forest and farm the land to honour things. They agree in the end, and we remove the altar from the forest edge. Everything is stored below the barn and earth etc. is filled into the barn floor to make it look like there's no door; it's sealed now. We have to take the bodies back to town for more powerful magic to settle them.

Because we don't know if those wounds are urgent, we need to head off immediately to town. Clara and Kyla will come and explain as much as they want (or not) at town. It turns out *they* were going to pay us, in old family jewellery scraped together. We refuse, even Danain - which Riglan finds very touching; it shows Danain's true character. We get back to town that evening, go to the Marshal (who complains about the late hour!) and Clara helps us explain (in abstract terms) that we did complete things. We do, then, get paid the 100gp.

(250xp, total 400 => **LEVEL 2**)

That night, Riglan dreams. He's at the temple, in the tomb, all sealed. He goes outside. The temple is ancient, but in its full flory. The forest is beautiful, the trees giant. Half elven, half orc druids are walking around. They don't see me. Grounds the temple are beautiful tended, by magic which has lent the trees towards the shapes they have taken. It's an ancient druid circle. One druid then suddenly *does* see me. He beckons me to follow, using a language I don't understand. He takes me to a stone circle, larger than the one we saw in the cavern. He walks to the centre, and transforms into a spectral unicorn. I sense it wants me to come forward, so I do. It nuzzles my hand. We have a connection; it teaches me about connection and balance, the healing touch of its horn; I see through its eyes, the world as it sees it. I open my own eyes again and see a bear; it brings strength and the ability to protect. The unicorn for healing and also to protect. Above me is an eagle. I reach to it, and am pulled again into its mind, seeing the forest from above, stretching for endless miles. Flying between the mountains are dragons; marching along the ridges are giants. I feel a connection between myself as the eagle, and all beasts for miles around, almost as if a single mind. They all turn to wards me, and I feel whole. Riglan wakes up.

This is Riglan's calling. Not just beasts; a connection to the fey of the ancient forests. Protection and support.

## DAY 8

Day four in town (after 3 nights): In the morning, given we have money, we decide to go to the market. We cut through Wheattown, all breweries and so-on, with a windmill that grinds the grain. At Ha'Bakers Lane, there are smaller houses - halflings congregate here, allowing 3 storey buildings at the same height as most others have 2 storeys. Ground floor is all shops, dominated by bakeries. Temo gives us some things to try out. Riglan prefers the ginger cookies - not too sweet, or greasy or fiddly. Very crunchy. We also splash out in a chocolate shop; Riglan's never had that before.

We get to the market; it is mostly commerce and seems to have everything! It's hard to even know where to start, but all three of us are drawn to a stall with studded leather armour after our difficult encounter yesterday. Riglan gets hide, while Danain and Temo eventually decide to go for studded leather. We get a good deal. We also pick up a tent in exchange for a hunting trap, and Temo grabs a healer's kit.

A nearby shop catches Riglan's eye with herbs. He can make a healing potion, but the ingredients would cost 25gp. The storekeeper instead draws up a list of things from the woods he wants, challenging Riglan to see what he can find so they can barter. The party head out to give that a go - essentially, it becomes today's job. We spend much of the day, having lunch by foraging, trying our hand at smoking an eel, and in the end find the whole list. The storekeeper in return gives us the healing potion ingredients for free, along with a vial.

It gets to late afternoon and we go to visit Tink About It. The area is almost residential. Tink About It is itself just a house with a sign outside. We are ushered inside; Riglan struggles to fit in the door but it's surprisingly large inside - steps lead down, ending up with almost a double height space in a basement, the house converted into almost a warehouse, the upper - well, ground level - storey really just a set of mezzanines around the edges. It's pretty chaotic - a working space, but with no obvious organisation. Various conversations about metal shortages, the crystals that power things, and she mentions the war and how the village was raided; people taken. Temo realises it's part of what happened to his parents. Nobody's come back, but we're told the war has just ended and we won, so maybe there's hope?

She's fixing a light that was from the centipede originally, but is now attached into a bee that can hover. It needs more work, so we're asked to come back tonight at 10pm. We spend downtime at Hoppenbock, Riglan buying Danain the drink he owes him instead of taking payment at the farmsteads. We watch street performers for a while, then eventually head back to Tink About It around 10.

We arrive to find the door slightly ajar... Inside, 2 big guys messing up the place, one shuffling through papers and an elven lady apparently using magic to extract thoughts from an unconscious Maireagh. We manage to defeat them, with all dead except the ringleader who's unconscious. Maireagh is revived via healing and immediately basically freaks out and packs belongings into a strange folding set of compartments that shrink down via magic somehow. She says that these people have "found her" and are from an organisation that wants to steal her secrets and won't stop. Temo and Danain convince her to go with them to the inn, while Riglan finds rope and binds/gags the ringleader spellcaster so she can't cast or escape. He carries her to find and wakes the marshal, who takes her into custody. Meanwhile, upon departure Maireagh sets her own house on fire with some kind of explosive thing she's made. A crowd gathers as it burns, and this distracts people as we flee back to the inn, where she agrees to at least stay that night before leaving first thing in the morning.

(200xp, total 600).

That night we talk a while and she actually does have the fixed light-up bee, which she gives to Riglan. She'll stay the night in the fourth bed in the room, the three of us saying we'll take watches so she feels more safe.

## DAY 9

Day five in town (after 4 nights): We discuss directions. E - Nesmay, Silverymoon, and on to the Evermoors. S - heads to the Mines and Deepgarden Keep, a bigger town. W - one road goes to Longsaddle, the other towards the forest / Lurkwood and, beyond, the coast. There are some mines in the N and E too (the mission in town was to head NE, not the Southern mines). The noble we hunted for was from Deepgarden.

There is indecision. Danain decides to head off alone to talk to people in town - the sort of thing he'd do by himself normally. Maireagh is OK hiding out in the room while Riglan and Temo get some rope etc., eventually returning for the three of us to try the smoked eel (tastes OK, smells dodgy). We go on an errand to get a 2gp 200 page notebook for Maireagh from Bjarven's Library (telling him it's for a "small old friend who has had to leave town, and we'll meet up with her later on the road"). He takes a surprising amount of interest in where she's gone and we suspect that he might not have her best interests at heart, so we're evasive in our responses and exit as hastily as we politely can. We take the book to Maireagh who starts consolidating various bits of notes into it, burning the original scraps of paper in a tin bucket in the room as she goes.

We try the weird fish brew thing at Pojjenheidden. Riglan thinks it's OK, but Temo is definitely not into it (con saves - Riglan 21, Temo 12). Danain comes and finds us - he's heard crazy stories of a million gold that's been lost under Waterdeep and wants to get a crew together to sort it out. He seems pretty sold on the idea, but Riglan and Temo aren't too sure. In any event, it sways us to at least make a decision on direction - S, towards Deepgarden, for the mine, the novelty and perhaps onwards from there towards Waterdeep (though Riglan suspects Danain might really be thinking of doing that with other people, even though Temo thinks he'll stay). We know Maireagh has a contact at the mines to the S., so we at least have some potential ways to think about jobs and money.

## DAY 10

Day six in town (after 5 nights): We depart. Get a bit of money back for the rooms. Maireagh emerges in a crazy disguise, including sort of stilts hidden under clothes to look less like a dwarf etc.; she can't walk steadily, so it takes us a long time to get through the little town and far enough beyond the walls for her to take all that off and dress normally, walking on the road. Our walking speed is limited at 25ft by Temo & Maireagh. We left early, walk for about 4 hours and find a small grove for lunch in shade as it's getting hot. Pushing on, a few hours longer we get to an inn, but if we push a bit further there are some woods where we're able to camp without it being so easy to find us (so, we do that).

At camp, Maireagh and Riglan compare styles of "magic" (well, technology, she says). At one point, Maireigh uses a device which captures in essence a holographic photo - the four of us, lit by the light bee, in front of our two tents with the overhanging rock behind our encampment. It can show this image as a projection above the device. Riglan's never see anything like it - pretty amazing.

## DAY 11

The next day is uneventful travel much in the same vein as yesterday. We get to the town of Deepgarden Keep at around 4pm (We approach from the North on the road going past Vermillion Stables).

We are on a slight descent and see a river and hills behind into which much of the town is built. It looks like there was once a beautiful citadel in the middle, but we can see even at distance that it isn't in great condition; there are signs of damage that has not been repaired. It's the biggest place Riglan's seen, anyway, by some margin. The town beyond a central, higher walled section comes down towards the river but is raised up a little with kind of headlands on the sharper river bends. There's a wooden town wall; some defense, but not much. Solid, functional look to it all, but quite busy.

As we get closer, more damage becomes apparent. There are occasional burned buildings, only some of which are under repair. Some areas are actually down to rubble, especially more on the outskirts we're heading through.

The road is a dirt road still, except for the river bridges which are solid stone, but not at all grand. The stables are quite large and busy; a large U shape complex of buildings and a courtyard. There's an area of rubble, then a cryptic sign to "Holdsworth & Illsbrod" pointing down the side of that destroyed area, along a side road. Hoping there might be someone who we can ask about the state of town, we head that way. There's some rebuilding effort, but not too much.

There's no obvious order to it all, but there's a strange feeling that some people are kind of threatening or menacing a few others. We aren't sure what it's about. There's an archway with the "Holdsworth & Illsbrod" name on it, so we weave around the people standing outside with the concerned/angry/unsure people outside and head in.

It looks & smells like a tavern but there's more to it. Some kind of clubhouse? A few people are walking around looking a bit unfriendly (not engaging with us all). We head into the more tavern-like area seeing if we can find anyone who looks like they might be kind of official. We give up and head back outside; the groups we saw before have dispersed. So, we just get back on the bigger road and head over the bridge.

Danain knows a tavern. Cornerstone on the other side of town is great, but a long way off. On this side, the district we're already in (in front of the stone walls) is Cloudforge district. He recommends a place in there to start with; Elder Barge. We head that way. Talking to Maireagh on the way, she explains that this is a commercial centre for mines in the hills. The central garden is built around the original, now disused mine that started the town. She will try to find her contact in town if she can - explaining that he's kind of a prospector, rather than affiliated to a specific mine. He is called Gundren Rockseeker (a mountain dwarf, originally from citadel Adbar, E of Mithril Hall).

It's much more racially diverse than the smaller towns; gnomes, dwarves, halflings, humans; few elves; even a handful of half orcs, but people are working. The air isn't clean - Riglan really notices that - working forges make things smokey. If Riglan wanted out of his comfort zone, he's certainly in right place. Even in this more busy commercial section, some buildings are damaged. Riglan stops really being able to take things in (nat 1 perception roll!) - it's just so busy and smokey. Suddenly a lot more people are around - Danain mentions a "change of shift" - so it's even more disorientating. Riglan feels like he's in everyone's way and just does his best to stick close to Danain.

We reach "The Elder Barge". Danain's very enthusiastic about it being lively and friendly. We head in. It's basically chaos, groups of people making merry. There's none of the menacing air we felt before. A walkway past bars and a kitchen eventually leads to what seems to be a common feature in the riverside buildings - we saw it at Holdsworth & Illsbrod too - a courtyard area of sorts, overlooking the river. We realise then that it's actually at river level, the land between the two tighter river bends with the sort-of-headlands lower here. There's an extension of the tavern - an actual barge moored, with wooden gangways from the land. We look up and find that there's even a second floor with a sort of open terrace.

We are welcomed by a half orc lady (Elsa) who was passing by with drinks; she offers us a few seating locations and we end up at the bar so that, once it's quieter, we can maybe chat to the barman about what's been happening in town. We get some drinks and it's pretty expensive - a silver for a mug of Dwarven ale, but "only" 4 coppers for a normal stein (mug) of ale. Still, it's very good.

The barman is called Toblen Stonehill; a short human. He tells us there's a job board at the marshal's office. Ombudshouse for mining work. There's a miner's exchange for traders in the Markethall. We ask about the damage - turns out they were raided; lots stolen, people taken, even a red dragon burning some buildings. They were lucky to have some heroes/adventurers in town, almost a dozen, and between them and everyone else they managed to drive the raiders away but there was a lot of damage. At least they're rebuilding now. (It was the war, he says). There's a shortage of materials, probably everywhere. He notes that the bad weather up north has caused crop issues and it's difficult for the town to get enough food in via trade, as that's another shortage area. (He mentions that he's from Triboar originally). He keeps chatting and tells us all sorts of things about the town's history; orc raids in the past, times when the settlement was abandoned when mines closed, but subsequently repopulated and so-on. The most recent was just a few years ago when they *all* reopened so that's why it's super busy - boom time. Population before Toblen around 1000 people, now more like double that.

(Riglan is now not surprised at his comments about the town needing to trade externally to get enough food).

He recommends Oldbarrow Inn but also Alsweir Steading (farm) - he is cagey about Holdsworth & Illsbrod, and I wonder if some "unsavoury character" he mentions might be Zhentarim or something? So, we head away from that; the inn is back that way, the farm further away. We cross the other bridge (bigger, 4 arches vs 3) to a farming area. We reach the building and go in; it seems to be a kind of farm shop, run by halflings. We buy some apples, and ask about the room; Temo (persuasion Nat 20!) and get a shared one. We're walked through and out the back is a kind of market garden, chickens, a small orchard etc. - just a little farm for fruit & veg. There's a small cottage which is where they live, then leads us to a smaller outbuilding. It has a lock but basic; not much security. Just one big room inside with four beds, which we keep clean.

We head to the Ombudshouse. It is closed. Rats. We carry on along the road towards the grand marshal's house - job board. The roads here have old, worn cobblestones rather than being dirt. We head up the hill; it's getting late, maybe 7pm. Looks quite grand. The citadel is faded glory; beautiful once in its own right. We get within sight of the gardens, which are planted as terraces into the old mine itself. The keep entrance arches over the gardens and into the citadel. Riglan wants to look at the gardens but first we'll check the job board. Some similar in style to what we've seen before. They tend to have trading company names against them.

* Caravan escort, etc. - general generic stuff.
* More missing persons - reward for information etc.
* A few missing shipments - similar deal.
* (Lion Shield Costa): Some missing people on a caravan; bandits on the road?
* (Wyvern Tor): REWARD - Orcs near Wyvern Tor. Fade the orc menace! Enquire within. 200gp.
* (Byreby Weir Traders): Missing or very delayed inbound caravan with shipment.
* Missing: Thel Drendar's wife and children; for information speak to Trilena at Oldbarrow Inn. 
* Seekers of knowledge, purveyors of scrolls and tomes - adventurers needed! Speak to Sister Garaele at Temple Of The Mount.
* Discretion required (sensitive matter) - seek Sildar Hallwinter at Tevallaine Scrollkeeper.

Maireagh gasps and points at one of the many posted jobs; "Missing: Gundren Rockseeker. Last sighted on the road towards the Western mines. Seen passing through West groves" (with 5 days ago date). So with that in mind but no real idea where to start, Maireagh says that he had a sister-in-law at Blackfinger Forge so we head there.

On the way, Riglan notices much more (nat 20 perception -> 26 total). A group of four burly looking men in dark red cloaks with sleeves are a couple of streets over; people in H&I were wearing unusual dark red stuff like that too. They seem to be bothering / intimidating a group of dwarven and gnome workers. Bullies basically, while the others try to avoid them. One of the gnomes reaches into a pocket and hands something over - we see it's money as they're happy to make a show of what they've gained. Temo starts to head over, but Danain stops him. Doesn't want to get involved, especially on the first night! Riglan is forced to agree - we have to find Gundren. Temo is pretty unhappy. Maireagh too. Riglan has an insight that Toblen wasn't so much worried about talking to us, as being overheard by someone else and getting into trouble. At a quieter time...

...We keep distance, alter route to avoid the bullies and reach the Blackfinger Forge. It is open, so we head in (Riglan ducks under the door!). Familiar vibe; similar approach to Maireagh's old place; steps down into a sort of basement. Very hot. Maireagh asks for the sister-in-law, who is actually here but busy. **Eventually we get to the point and the sister-in-law is fetched (she's Koza Blackfinger)**.

We hear from her that Gundren heard a rumour of the discovery of Wave Echo Cave - a legend, theoretically; should be nonsense. Koza fetches a piece of ore, which glows blue/purple. Maireagh is amazed... The rest of us just listen and watch. "The brothers" gave it Gundren, claiming that they found it in this cave. The brothers then went missing weeks ago, worrying everyone; Gundren went looking and missing too. Koza also tells us about the "Redbrand Gang" - the red cloaks - who appeared about 4 months ago and started causing trouble immediately. The marshal hasn't done anything about it, insisting they're just a mercenary company that are a bit rude - he refuses to see what's really going on. They try to extort protection money.

She is worried at the thought of us chasing after Gundren - another group to go missing? - he never said where exactly he went; just into the hills, which run for miles - almost all the way to Longsaddle. Riglan detects intense magic - a sort of wild magic energy, as if it was infuse. Best we can think of is to head to the West Groves area and ask around tomorrow.

- we go back to inn for late food. It's still really busy. talk amongst selves; Danain feels torn about heading off; really wants to but feels obligated somehow to stay.
- Riglan points out that we owe him, if anything, for helping in battle, assisting with Temo rather than handing him over etc. - it's his heart, he should follow it!

So we cheer up a bit. Riglan overhears a few conversations in passing. There are miners concerned about orc raiders to the East; some mention the job posting, but there is derision about the Marshal and the city administrator, who they think are both just being intimidated and railroaded by the red cloaks. They rate Halia, saying she's had the guts to stand up to the them. Someone mentions another person who might've helped but doesn't seem to do anything these days - down by West Groves, an old adventurer Daran. Used to work along the dragon coast / sea of falling stars - half elf, over 100 years old.

Elsa the server comes over, gossiping on the same topic. Daran had helped with the dragon attack too. She says there are strange things afoot - Sister Garaele left town recently and returned wounded and exhausted. Toblen joins us too (prompting us to order more ale) - mentions that the local wood carver near the fletchers, Thel Dendrar, stood up to them about a week ago but they smashed it up; he went to confront them at H&I but he was murdered (!) yet the marshal did nothing... No idea about his body, but his wife, daughter and son are missing.

They hassle everyone except the miner's exchange, so maybe Halia has some key info?

Danain plans to leave in the morning. It's about 10:30pm, and we head back to the farmhouse. On the way, Riglan notices some people gathered around someone; the group appears to be wearing similar clothes - hard to tell in the dark. Probably the redbrands. Riglan tells the others - "not your fight...!" and strides up. Five men around a prone person. At about 30ft, Riglan say bold as brass, "Good evening, gents; what seems to be the problem?!" and is told to stay out of it. They club the person on the ground, and Riglan tells them what he thinks of that. Behind him his party has already drawn weapons, and next moment, they're in combat.

It's sketchy but we just mange to rescue Nethza, a female Tiefling. She was a performer in Verrunsgard - I realise she was a performer there. She thanks us and runs off before we can stop her. We run to the farmstay. As we bed down, Maireagh modifies Riglan's bee to be worn around the neck, and manages to make a similar crystal light as a ring for Temo. We can't see far, but we'll never be in the dark.

DAY 12

The next morning, Danain has written the first couple of verses of a song about him. Riglan bids him farewell, good hunting; he will always have a place at Riglan's campfire. Danain says our paths will cross again. Riglan gives him the songbird. As he walks away, "Look me up in Waterdeep - look for the most famous bard in the land!". He's given Riglan a piece of paper folded up - the song lyrics, a platinum piece and a note - "For my share of all the things".

Happy sad.

We can't hang around and head off towards West Groves. Maireagh's done something to improve her shield. We try to find Daran. We ask around and get pointed to a farmhouse - Eldermoth Orchard - surrounded by fields. Two people there; silver-haired half elf and younger human guy, very handsome and built (Berit). We explain that we're looking for someone; they invite us indoors, as they seem to have a tale to tell. We notice that there are two suits of armour inside on stands, one for each of them. They make spiced apple tea (!) while we talk. Riglan notices that they're probably a couple (though Daran is probably around 150, while Berit is probably around 35, same as Temo).

Berit was South, at the well of dragons. Got back 4 days ago. (Riglan looks puzzled; Berit explains about the war briefly). On the road, he got waylaid by goblins. Defeated them, followed one that was escaping to cave, found some supplies, an empty bag and shows us one more thing - part of a shield, gauntlet, a medallion and two small handaxes. Maireagh identifies them as Gundren's. Berit is very shaken after the war, and very apologetic but can't bring himself to come, but shows us on a map where the cave is. There was no body at the cave tho, and the axes were clean - not used in a fight. We don't know what's happened.

Berit found one other thing, which was on two of the goblins. Some kind of insignia. We don't recognise it. Part of a group? They had artificially sharpened teeth - more sharp than unusual. There's a rumour of a big tribe of goblins living somewhere around the region, lead by smarter creatures - bugbears, orcs or similar. Perhaps the "Cragmaw Clan", known in the area for a while but not usually bothering people. They have a castle (!) somewhere; a druid they know might have an idea. Location unknown. Called "Reiodth", last seen somewhere called Thundertree they think but are not sure.

Also, someone might've been digging around in the ruins of Old Owlbear Tower. Prospectors have told stories about it; sometimes they shelter there, but a group of miners said they were chased out by undead. It's two days from town. We agree to investigate, since we're kind of heading that way anyway. We mention the undead from earlier; Berit gets a book and asks if we recognise the pictures and Temo recognise the ruins in one picture as very similar to the temple before, which we'd thought Illuskan. It's not - it is Netherese. Berit already suspected that Old Owlbear Tower was Netherese too, and again, undead there. Given Riglan's vision of the populated temple, he suspects that at the tail end of the Iluskan empire, the Netherese had already fallen and perhaps the Illuskans were using the temple themselves at that point.

In convo about our tangle with the redbadges it comes up that Halia is Zhentarim! Better avoid the miner's exchange. Daran asks if Riglan is a druid - yes - and if he's attached to his staff...? He has one from an old friend, and he has no use for it, sentimental value aside; says she (his friend) would like it to be used. Hands me a dark, well made staff with a serpent style head carved. "Staff Of The Adder".

With thanks, we head off to the cave marked on the map. It takes about an hour along the road before we come off along a path (so Riglan attunes to the staff along the way), which leads into trees after about ten minutes. (Survival roll good) We find the cave easily enough. Armoured human footprints; metal boots. Can see the scuffle and to some degree see how people moved around. There are also more recent prints, after Berit would've been here, heading deeper; we hear running water, faint. The cave goes a lot deeper. We see around four sets of more recent goblin footprints, going into the darkness.

Riglan decides to head in first, with the light bee on. Winding passage. A flatter area with a small stream, eventually, with the water apparently flowing into the cave area rather than out. We realise there's faint daylight to the right - it's a tunnel right through hill. Trees all around outside, familiar species, natural. Not ancient tho (100 ish y/o). Woods, not forest. Checking for footprints again - nat 20 roll! - with 4 pairs of prints, we manage to keep picking up at least one. Follows stream, which is flowing down from the higher stone slopes on the hills - we deduce from another cave system further on. We follow to another cave entrance, and the tracks lead into the stream, curiously. We follow in the water, since tracks don't seem to reappear on the other side so stream is assumed.

There are sounds from the thicket to either side of the cave entrance. It's the sound of arguing. Unrecognised language. Temo recognises goblin. Tries to sneak up - does an alright job despite being in the stream! Sees two goblins arguing over a shortsword; it looks like goblin hidey-hole; they're the lookout. Temo indicates 2 goblins arguing via hand gestures, then quietly draws his bow. We prepare for battle too and creep up. We do a poor job of the creeping bit - only Temo is quiet, so the goblins hear us.

Messy battle (with some bad rolls) but we take down the two incredibly low hitpoint goblins ;-) and proceed onward after hiding the bodies and taking the shortsword. Also find 50 silver. We see another, dry cave entrance. We enter. From what light there is, Riglan sees it is large; 20-30ft cavern. Maireagh leads as she has darkvision. Stream noises mask our sounds a little. We do hear sounds from a chamber on the right, up some small stairs. At end of that space is a fissure and rubble, and Riglan smells animal droppings. We hear snarling, and sounds of chains being pulled taut - wolves, but chained. Nat 20 animal handling from Riglan, talks to them and calms them. Leaves food outside. They trust us; Temo manages to free them. They go out and eat, but surprisingly come back. They tell Riglan that 2 more wolves, and 2 other creatures are also captive. They warn of a bugbear in charge, leading the 6 goblins inside. They convey the notion of goblin patrols, and floods of water that the goblins use against attackers. They offer to lead us, and head to the fissure at the back. We follow as they squeeze through. Riglan is too big but Wild Shapes into a wolf, to - fortunately - the delight of the other wolves, who "knew all along that you were a wolf!"

A cavern with a small fire; sound of waterfalls; bugbear there, with 2 other chained wolves, ignores our arrival as wolves. 2 goblins serving him. We all manage to sneak in. Battle!

6 goblins & a bugbear later (after a rather tricky but successful battle) we're done. The 2 wolves are free. Turns out the other two are human and unconscious. A possible nobleman, and a mid to late 40s woman in strange clothing; almost a monk kung fu kind of outfit, albeit torn up a little and bloodstained. Black hair and what we would call oriental descent. Maireagh has a spell left and heals her, while Riglan uses his last spell to heal the man. She says she was ambushed and a few days later he was dragged in. She doesn't know how long she's been here. Temo meanwhile figures out how the pools/dam flooding works, checks it won't damage anything and opens stuff up, wedging it so that the stream flows through - no risk of unexpected floods in future.

The guy wakes up and says he's Sildar, travelling with Gundren - but Gundren isn't here. Says Gundren's brothers are missing too (Thardin and Nundro) - he had a map to Wave Echo Cave. But they got waylaid by the goblins. We search the cave, but find no map; just a note written in dodgy elvish, "Gundren - capture him - he has a map - bring it to me at Cragmaw Castle." Signed but we can't read the signature.

We also find a high quality scimitar, 2 working and 1 broken light crossbows with 26 bolts, we also find 14 arrows, one javelin, one morningstar, some high quality hide armour (better looking than Riglan's) on the bugbear (Riglan replaces bits of his armour but keeps most of it, if only for sentimental value), lots of provisions with the Lion Shield Costa insignia (we note the location) and a small jade statuette of a frog with tiny golden orbs for eyes; not magical but beautifully made. Detect magic tho *does* draw my eye to a small pouch with two potions of healing, and a treasure chest (!) with 110 silver and 600 copper pieces. We'll have to exchange all that in town. Riglan also stumbles across a bag of 10 miscellaneous gems.

(225xp -> 925, LEVEL 3 after day 12->day 13 long rest).

We realise we pretty much have to go back to town - these two people need help there, we've all this stuff to try and sell or something (!) and even though we know we're short on time to find Gundren (if he's alive!) we figure he's at this castle and need a druid to find him. We also did agree to check out Owlbear Tower too.

The woman's name is Laycie, a monk. Riglan and her exchange philosophies on the walk, which are in many ways similar. She'd been travelling and is out to learn more about the world; a pacifist monastery which prices knowledge, understanding and the like. She lives far, far to the East, came by boat across the Sea of Fallen Stars and travelled across the continent over many months. "The sisters of mercy". One of their tenets is that knowledge alone isn't enough; need to live amongst people to understand them. She's a healer, but there are things she isn't sharing yet (she doesn't really know or trust us that much). Evasive about her original monastery.

We get back to town in the late afternoon (maybe 4ish). Sildar says he'll find a room in an inn. He's thinking H&I, but we recommend Font Of Fancy if he can afford it (and it seems that he can!). Laycie stays with us, and offers to cook while we go out to deal with the things we found.

Temo gives his scimitar to Maireagh along with 9 arrows due to weight, but keeps the short sword and rest of the arrows. Riglan gets the javelin. We go to the Ombudshouse to track down Lion Shield Costa, and get directed to Byrby Weir Traders. In the mean time we give them the info on where the cave is.
