# Riglan: Part 5

## DAY 31

OVERNIGHT: Riglan dreams, our party on edge and dog on watch; Riglan's staff is by his side.

He feels the staff talking to him, giving him glimpses of its past and history. It speaks with a voice, not of the adder - an elven spirit, Ilpharnese, seems to live within it. Takes him to the moment he was given the staff by Daran, who said an old druid friend of his gave it to him but doesn't need it anymore... The memory traces back further, to a younger Daran (20-30 years earlier) with a druid friend who was a quite old elf, holding the staff. It looks a bit different - somewhat bigger and stronger - and then Riglan sees a moment of them in a huge battle. The druid expends immense energy from the staff which diminishes it; withers somewhat, but the druid holds it together and infuses it with a snake spirit, just enough to keep it together. So the adder staff is just a form of whatever the staff used to be. There's more to it than the adder. It continues through dreams to speak more in concepts; the language of nature; the staff's magic is old, Ilpharnese, 1000s of years ago, but has waned over the centuries like all other things in the world.

Things go even further back. The staff was part of a long line of druids, racing back through time, to eventually see a "first person" view of being given the staff in the middle of a different battle. Given a staff instead of a sickle, looking back then like living wood. That's from the same dream when Riglan went to that old temple, but with a battle nearby; oh, so it's the same staff, thousands of years old. It feels like the staff is calling to Riglan, trying to wake him from a dream within this dream; to warn me of elemental chaos around, hot desert wind and burning forest, earthquakes rent the ground, hailstorms and hurricanes rage, floods rise all around the elven spirit of the staff - urging him, "Wake up! Wake up! Druid, you're needed!"

Riglan wakes, clutching his staff. Something is awakening within it - the connection feels different. He doesn't understand details yet. Perhaps the innate magic of this cave has provided it with extra energy to do so. He activates the adder head & tries to speak to it - it replies, in Sylvain. It's essentially acting as fey spirit of its own. Physically a snake, but the spirit is fey. The spirit is only there to protect the staff, but the staff is now gaining some strength.

Riglan wakes the others and we decide our next move. We decide to go for the scull! We use distraction - the party splits to either entrance on the sides of the great dance hall. Riglan "summon beasts" a small albatross, bright white, while Temo pulls a panther from his bag of tricks. The albatross distracts the scull and survives a blast; Temo hits it with magic missile, which is effective. The panther runs out and takes Dodge; the scull misses. Gundren who was relaying "go" signals via reactions to enable Maireagh's lights for Riglan and himself, is called into the fray and runs over on Temo and Nethza's side. Zombies spring up! Attack the panther but again miss; it is agile. Three in total, two attacking and the third blocked.

Maireagh runs in from Riglan's side. The action is obscured by the smelter. She runs into the room further, dog nearby, and a dwarf zombie springs up, hitting her. And a fifth! A gnome from behind the smelter. It attacks her too, but the dog reacts to distract it and its attack misses. Nethza runs out on the other side, not too impressed at the plan given the new zombie problem and attacks them, trying to protect Temo and Gundren behind. She stands beside the panther, blocking the tunnel at ground level (but not blocking the floating scull). She shouts "hey, we're in trouble over here!" - as a sixth zombie rises on Riglan's side. He runs out, and attacks the nearest zombie at range with firebolt. Good hit. Albatros hits it too. Temo gets another run on the scull and the panther takes down a zombie but it bounces back. The scull fires out a fireball on that side, hitting Nethza (resistant, but 16 damage) and Temo (saves, so 16) but also Gundren (32, takes full) and the panther (obliterated! wah). Gundren runs out and attacks the bounced-back zombie, getting it down properly; a second attack on the next zombie. At least that's *some* progress, but if there are fireballs in the mix we're in trouble.

Fortunately, it doesn't take long enough for the scull to be taken down. While battling at one point around four zombies and getting pushed over a few times, Maireagh manages to get in a hit from a distance. Riglan, the albatros and the dog keep doing what they can to take the zombies down with good hits often, but they have a habit of bouncing back with just a few hit points. Nethza tries to attack the scull which is looking pretty messed up, but this time it throws up a shield. Seeing this, Temo realises his missiles won't work so gets in a direct crossbow hit. With a good damage roll, he takes the scull down. Gundren has been battling zombies alongside Nethza and after a miss, gets a second wind and crits against one, taking it down; some similar luck takes out another shortly after and before you know it, there's only one left.

As the last zombie is taken down, it falls, but then rises once more. This time, though, it freezes. A strange spectre rises out from it - the wraith. It orders us to leave. Riglan tries to convince it that we're not evil, but it ignores us. It attempts to frighten us into leaving and though Nethza and Gundren are affected, the others aren't; the wraith leaves, the zombie falls, we pour holy water on the scull which crumbles to ash (some of which Temo collects in a vial - just in case it might come handy in one day?!) and we finally get a chance to take a breath, heal up any urgent wounds and examine the room we've (sort of) secured.

We're going to need to rest but we first check the room (with a poor roll). There are a few desiccated corpses still around; gnomes, dwarves and orcs, with a few that might've been mages. The zombies were all dwarves. The chamber is impressive; the channel is dry but the water wheel does turn. The mechanism is beautifully made and still functional. There are still flecks of precious metals around, so this was part of the mining. He detects some residual arcana (with an even worse roll) so this isn't "the" forge; we think things were refined here, precious metals turned into ingots, and the refined magical bits taken away - there are some trolleys and that's where the magic residue seems to be. The room is warm, but cooling down. Riglan confirms Temo's suspicions via Detect Magic; mostly enchantment and transmutation magic in the trolleys. There is, though, a *strong* pull to the East and there are traces of the same "feeling" magic in the now-dry channel. Riglan senses strong magic from Temo, especially his vial of ash, with a faint sense of evocation. Riglan also notices his staff - *much* more magic than it was before.

We short rest, then head down the previously unexplored Eastern passageway towards the strong magic signature.

We walk into a cavern Riglan recognises from the bat - a soaring roof reaching 40ft, dotted with glinting lights - we've seen this effect before. Almost starlike. Parts have crumbled. It's really hard to see given the size. Riglan risks lighting the lantern. Even with that, the edges are in darkness, but a lot more is revealed. Fluttering of wings into the dark regions at the corners - sturges probably. There are two standing structures, and Riglan realises that this is the "city" (village) of the dead! He tells his party but we keep looking - we've got to deal with it either way. Ground is littered with remnants of battle. Skeletons here and there. A huge spell battle must've taken place given the damage. Even remains of destroyed buildings. There's a cliff edge to the North, with a possible second building there. All stone. Building directly ahead is battered, blackened walls. Double doors are cracked and scorched. (Insight from Riglan low roll, perception from Temo even worse heh). It's 20ft high but single story. We risk trying to enter that first building.

As we walk forward, we hear rattling of bones around us. They start to come together and rise into skeletons that move slowly, trying to construct themselves. One reaches for a sword. We take a defensive stance keeping the tunnel behind us as an escape route. The skeletons rush us! Six of them. They look scary, but they're easy to take down. We enter the room we were headed for.

It's a large workshop, heavily damaged. A central stone pedestal has a brazier with a non-heat green flame crackling around and seems untouched compared to the rest of the damage and behind it is a 4 foot sphere, floating, with four eye stalks and the body itself being a huge eye. Yikes! - and it says "hullo". The voice is in our heads. Riglan introduces himself and Gundren explains that they're there to take the forge back. The creature double checks with us, then tells us it cannot do that. Riglan's insight - nat 20! - "take" and "retake". It seems to want to gauge intent. It isn't interested in anything that does not pertain to the forge. When talking about restarting the forge, it sours. Riglan says that they intend to do protect it from those that might do evil. It asks what evil means. Riglan reflects that question back. It says it's what it does not like; what it opposes; things that would stop it fulfilling its purpose. Temo steps in and asks what its purpose is.

The "spectator" turns to him. It says he looks like a wizard (!) and surely would know; he should protect this place, he was summoned by one. It is to guard the magic items and forge of spells, here, in this building - to attack and kill anything that would take it or claim it. It opines that the mine needs to be kept running just as it always has (!). Riglan opens the door and asks it to take a look. It says that there are no undead there now, but they always come. It asks us to leave and we do.

We go to the cliff edge looking at the lower level, and the wraith speaks! "Don't lurk! At least be polite enough to come down if you want to talk to me." - we descend some stairs. Skeletons stand but don't attack. We go into the building there. There's an area of partly intact benches and beds, a scorched but intact iron chest. The wraith sits in a chair - he seems to live here. Riglan asks why it doesn't want him to restart the forge. He claims it's offensive that they are here, to the fallen dead. The Deepgarden Pact is a scam; him and his brothers fell defending it, and nobody came to their aid. Centuries in undeath. Condemned to protect the place forever. Riglan asks if there's anything they can do to help, to set them free. It thinks a while and then requests 100 innocent souls, then one more every moon to nourish him while the place operates. Riglan figures that the wraith has lost himself to madness and succumbed to the hungers of undeath. Obviously, Riglan refuses but picks up that he was probably living in this room when he was alive; he fidgets and tries to touch things on the table but can't connect with them. Riglan says - "I'm sorry. All we can do is try and set you free" - by which he really means battle. He says - "I hoped to offer you these treasures if you killed that spectator out there who blocks my access to the rest of all that is mine. But instead, I will let you set me free - *by killing me!*"

So, battle is on. With a wraith. We don't have a lot of prior for this...

We do OK, but Gundren gets badly hurt (max HP dropped, sits at 20 of only 21 max). Mormesk disintegrates eventually, and undead in the room drop immediately. We have at least solved the undead problem and know where the forge is now.

We find a key on the chair where he sat. It opens the chest. A beautiful pipe, 3 small diamonds, 50 electrum. There's a journal in old Phelorm ("The extraplanar theories of The Great Mormesk"), some books and on the desk nearby, some books in pristine preserved condition somehow, same language, seem to be history/arcana. We gather the books etc. and examine them. They're about the nature of magic and mirror planes. History and theories about where this magic in the cave comes from and how the signature of some of the magic suggests it is not from Feyrun. The journal warns about a disagreement with another mage who called a Spectator; they're prone to falling to insanity. Brief accounts of battle going badly.

Given Gundren's condition, we decide the Spectator (as we now know it is called) can wait and head back to camp to long rest, studying the books etc. for the rest of the day.

We start to head out, but notice one more cave. We head that way and find a cavern filled with fluorescent glowing mushrooms. 60ft from end to end. Temo examines them, holding his breath close to them - as he gets close the release puffs of gas or spores or something. He gets to Riglan's book of information and points out that these are a rare, bioluminescent cave mushroom that's sensitive to sound, releasing spores that drive people mad. Valuable - *if* it can be harvested! The cavern is filled to the brim. We don't try and go through. We know there must be another way in because the Black Spider found it (and we can see it).

We head back the way we came, out past the smelter. We encounter ten sturges flying in the caves; they look hungry and vicious. Riglan talks to them! They're hungry; and they want to live here. Without a battle, it'd be hard to convince them to live elsewhere. We show them bodies of some of the bugbears & that's enough for them for a while.

We get back to camp, tell everyone the situation, tunnels safe from undead from not from sturges; we read journals and books while Gundren rests. We find the name of the mage who called the Spectator, but not much else. Mormesk refers to instances when Spectators have gone crazy in his written arguments. Temo also reads the Black Spider accounts, mostly concerned with the flaming scull. Temo notes a mention of blinding of a Spectator. From his time in the Luskan academy, Temo recalls that Spectators are not Beholders; but 4 Beholder eye stalks are used to summon them. When the Spectator's purpose is done, it *should* go back to its plane. If it has been away from its plane for a long time, sometimes they don't go back; they're just released from duty and free to do as they wish. They are no longer bound/pledged.

## DAY 32

We plan to cast Darkness if need be from a spell scroll (Nethza). Else Temo will try and smooth talk the Spectator. So we do that; a brief conversation and a magic reenactment to try and convince it of the events. It is convinced that much time has passed, contrary to its previous thoughts; it becomes aware and we convince it that it is in fact no longer bound and free to leave, but hasn't returned to its plane automatically because of the time passed. Riglan notices an awareness cross the centre eye - but it is not benevolent. It is, essentially and sadly, crazed; it has lost any grip on reality. It's been too long. Riglan casually suggests to Nethza that maybe now is the time to help persuade (!) our friend to go to its plane - she gets the scroll, trying to essentially deceive the Spectator about intent, but isn't successful.

Nethza casts Darkness on the shield she has. As she is doing this, the Spectator shoots out rays from its eyes immediately; two burst forth. One hits Gundren, who is paralysed! One hits Riglan, who is briefly terrified but shrugs it off. Then it goes dark. Riglan tells the Spectator to play nice; it should go back. It's confused and angry and somewhat defeated. We feel it pushing in on us mentally. Riglan could try to convince it with wisdom; Temo with persuasion; Temo tries. Rolls nat 3 (!) + 8, so no good. It just gets more frustrated; hatred starts to rise. Riglan has one last go and gets some insight to calm it down. It's a bad situation, didn't ask to be here, held here longer than it wished, surely there's something better, we've tried to help by killing the undead, we've tried to solve the riddle & remove threats to forge, you're released from your bond & have tried to create an environment to make it easier and less distracting to find its way home back to its plane. Surely it can feel that tether, somehow... Temo makes an Arcana check to see if that's working, and finally rolls well - nat 20 (+3). He is able to help the spectator find this feeling of tether, of magic; we sense the intellect disappear. Success.

Nethza isn't sure and wraps Temo around the shield (!) because he's got a cloak. This stifles Darkness. We can see there's no Spectator anymore. Nethza drops the spell. We notice that Gundren can move again. Riglan finds this all hilarious.

Riglan's staff speaks - it says "the source is near". It isn't at full strength tho; it needs activating or awakening. We have instructions! Gundren is about to approach, but Temo steps in to check the room first (investigation, 16+5, excellent). On one worktable in the SE corner of the room are two items that look cleaner than the rest. Riglan casts Detect Magic, aware of the possible consequences in somewhere as magical as this! (Wisdom Saving, 8+8, good enough). There are lines of magic, like magnetic field lines coming from the brazier; the green flames seem to be where strands rub and intertwine at the centre. 100% enchantment school, very strong. The two items in the corner pull strongly too - one breastplate and one mace. No other items have an aura.

* Since we think we're secure, Maireagh (rolls well, 20+), Temo (arcana 4+3!) and Nethza look at those objects.

* Riglan and Gundren work on the activation stuff.

Riglan's staff gets more active & "excited" feeling as we step through the process. There are various pieces required, including water from the pool, cleaning & resetting misplaced pieces around the brazier; elements inside the brazier reveal themselves to be mechanical and finally "click" into place and we fill it with water. But Temo has to dislodge one of the sparkly crystals from the cavern ceiling as we need a piece of that (which is indeed the ore, as we suspected, of interest here). Riglan *could* just call a bird. But it went so well last time, trying to get on the shelf. Temo takes some convincing but Riglan insists and we give "throw the Halfling" a go at nearer the cave edge and is about to throw Temo at the wall when Maireagh points out that we could maybe just aim a crossbow bolt?

"You're all spoilsports", says Riglan. So anyway, that. We have the last piece.

"Oh my goodness. We're about to start the Forge of Spells. This is a momentus occasion. And I'm surrounded by clowns." - says Gundren. Riglan - "Wait. What?!". We're about to put it in place. We decide to step back & use Mage Hand to place it in. Sleight of hand check nat 20 (again!) + 7. He's been rolling either < 10, or nat 20, all day. Weird.

A beam of light comes out of the top. It starts to pulse as if hot, but isn't hot; it's arcane power.

Riglan's staff awakens. Without command, it turns into the snake head. "Ah! This pure form of magic from the weave, drawn from the fey wild, has not existed for centuries. Do you trust me?" Riglan thinks a while - it's not too clear - then says "yes". "Then I would like to be reborn." "What does that mean?" "Place me in the magical fire of the forge and nourish my husk with something that contains some enchantment." - i.e. add a magic item in there with it.

It takes us a while to realise that we still have the spider staff. Riglan's staff approves; it says the magic is another remnant from the same era. It is happy. We place them both in the fire and they hover. The snake spirit is released; a fey spirit that is now free. It thanks Riglan and vanishes. The forms of the staffs seem to melt and meld into one thing - the spider staff turns into small spiders, crawling up the ex-snake staff, coccooning it in web. This melts away to reveal a seed that spends a minute or so growing into a long branch that sprouts at the top into a few leaves. The same spirit voice Riglan is used to say "oh! Catch me!" and falls out of the forge. Riglan rolls 7+1 (doesn't get it) but Temo with disadvantage gets 17+7 / 8+7, 15 is enough, he helps Riglan catch it. Phew! It turns out to be a pretty amazing druid staff.

Back to the mace and breastplate. Maireagh says they're an old kind of magic; the mace is called Lightbringer and a breastplate called Dragon Guard. Nethza likes the sound of that, so we agree she can have it. Riglan takes Lightbringer, at least for now.

Temo helps (with his strength gauntlets) clear some of the cave-ins to get water moving again. Gundren asks us to stay on patrol another day or two to check nothing left lurking. The stirges have to be chased out; Riglan feels bad but it's for the best, they don't get killed and neither do the dwarves. The fungus cavern is just closed off. Riglan and Temo convince the dwarves not to just e.g. burn them.

## DAY 33

Patrols and helping out.

Gundren offers a trade with Temo. The team need the gauntlets more than the boots. Temo agrees to swap; Maireagh gets the boots tho, as she's the slower of the group. There are speeches and partying that evening. Marieagh's barrel of brandy is finished up.

## DAY 34

Gundren stays behind with his team at the cave. Much of the basic cave operations are already running by then, though obviously there's a huge amount to repair. Gundren gives us a letter for Sildar and the first tiny ingot they made.

Slightly hungover (!), we bid a fond farewell and head away, collecting the two mules and Riglan's horse that were safe and well outside, the cave party having looked after all of the various mounts. We find out that Maireagh had stayed up a lot of the night listening to Gundren and his dreams. We get a short distance away and Riglan stops. Gives Maireagh a huge hug. We did it. Behind us, we suddenly hear shouting, and it's Nundro! He slept in and was meant to come back to town on a supply run. So he's got a mule and cart, we'll escort him home & he'll fetch more miners to go back. He claims he has to sign off on the paperwork.

The weather as we travel is OK. A strong wind from the West with some light rain now and then, but normal temperature as we travel the moors. Riglan reminds Nundro of his preference for the rails over the road and Nundro agrees; a road would just flood probably!

We have good progress and know the way, so we don't need to stop at the rock ledge and get all the way out of the boggy region before we need to stop for the night (Riglan calls a companion hawk to help us with navigation there). Riglan finds food and water, including some eels. Overnight watch is uneventful.

## DAY 35

Riglan calls the hawk to scout as we go and help with the hard-to-find track and how it connects to the main road. This makes it easy to find the road, because we can see traffic on it. As we get closer, Riglan hears the sound of commotion where the road would be. It's not far, so we speed up, telling Nundro to keep back and out of sight. Maireagh's mount gives her trouble but she tells us to run/ride on ahead which we do. We see a caravan under attack by a group of orcs. Sigh. Yes. Of course, the orcs are back. We rush in to assist!

We see 5 orcs, a bugbear, an overturned cart with one horse still tied and another fleeing, a person cowerig by the cart and two engaged in combat, one of whom falls as we watch, the other hit but staying up. Maireagh and the dog manage to catch up and get close; the dog can guard and distract. Temo fires at range and manages a chance hit but low damage. And so it goes on; Riglan setting up temp HP spirit to bring up the downed guard, and battle continues. Temo uses a combination of aims and magic missiles; Riglan's doing some healing and calls the albatross again; the usual colourful battle. As it closes, Riglan finally has time to notice that they're Lion Shield Costa. No loot on the Orcs though.

The guards are shaken, one very young (basically an intern for the older one), but they're OK after healing. Maireagh mends the cart as much as she can, but Nundro is brought over & helps. They're from Yartar. So travel in convoy for the remaining half day to Deepgarden Keep. We head straight for Byrebeware Traders & find Linene, who jokingly accuses us of perhaps organising for all these rescues! We ask about why the orcs are doing so well - the town is too depleted after the Redbrands messed everything up. She says that she did ask for reinforcements from Yartar.

Next up - Sildar. We have the Black Spider's notes on all that; though Sildar points out that it's not strictly *proof,* that she's Zhentarim, but he at least is absolutely sure. Even so, caution is required; she'd get sprung out of jail if she was imprisoned here. Either way it's just adding more weight to the process. Next, Nundro asks for the ingot - Riglan hands it over, and Gundren's note. We also give over the remaining things we got from the Black Spider, after being asked about him. Sildar hands us papers and asks us to sign; apparently it's share of ownership papers - a profit share arrangement and a combined seat at the governing council - the newest Deepgarden Pact. Maireagh confirms it and is happy to stand. Temo signs it. Riglan asks what a signature is! After some explanation about it being something unique to the person, Riglan wildshapes into a cat and offers a paw print. Then he bats the inkwell off the table, Temo catches it and Riglan returns to normal - "Aww, you're not fun Temo!" - the paw print should be unique to Riglan as his wildshapes are always an impression of himself.

Nundro signs alongside Gundren's existing signatures. The papers will be sent to the grand archives in Yartar for security; that's it. We all have some kind of share in something that may or may not be worth anything. Our party gets a **combined 10% and *****use of the forge***. We can take that as coin or (within reason of amount!) purified Etherium.

Whenever we're in town, or via an agent bearing our mark, can collect the 10% at that point. Nundro is establishing an office in town for all of that.

Next up, at Temo's request - Font Of Fancy. Sildar does give us a name of a jewellers we should go to at Yartar if we want somewhere pretty rich and someone to whom we can sell things. He recommends we go there, so we put a hold on that plan.

So we drop off the horses and check in at Alsweir. Carp's very happy to see us. Temo tries to have fun with the bag of tricks but we end up with a giant elk! We have to take it out of town to feed and generally not bother people. We next quickly pass by the forge to see Koza (Blackfinger) and tell her the news. She's thrilled that the mine is open and that we found Nundro, but sad about Thurdain.

(On the issue of bodies in the mine - they plan to gather all the bodies of the "good guys", bring them to town, find a field, make a proper grave site and build a memorial to the original Pact. Riglan sketches a picture of the Spectator, and asks that an image similar to that is included in any carving.)

We celebrate at Elder Barge, which just feels a bit more "us" and homely than the taproom. In the midst, Maireagh wanders off for a while. Riglan is worried and discretely follows. She has one hand on the dog and in the other she has a small contraption of some sort - it's the picture of us with Danain and so-on. She notices Riglan and for a minute, he thinks she might even have been crying... And she brushes them away. But she sees she's been rumbled, and doesn't hide it. She wonders how Danain is. He left too early. All this crazy stuff started by meeting in a drinking hall, buying a trinket and bringing it to get it fixed up. Maireagh misses Danain a fair bit.

Riglan has a lump in his throat. "Maybe we'll catch up with him one day."

We rejoin the party.

**TO LEVEL 5 OVERNIGHT** - Riglan dreams of a time when the world looked very different. Brighter colour? Almost too bright sometimes. In a forest. Exceedingly huge trees, but some areas have just tall bushes and parts of just massive mushrooms and ferns with fronds taller than he is. A sense of wonder. The sound of something sweet and delicious (!) in the air; he hears a kaleidoscope of colours (!); he sees melodic tunes flowing around him. Yet it's not confusing; he takes it in stride. He knows the senses aren't quite right and yet these senses are easy to access.

Riglan then counters some very green coloured almost-elves. Very dark green skin, vibrant. As he approaches, one takes his hand - "it's time! Come, come. Let's watch it from up that tree!" - they drag him along leaping from bough to bough up a huge tree; Riglan feels light as air. Below he can see a few pathways between giant trees, and in places even the giant ferns break the canopy. Multicoloured birds of paradise fly above. Rope and wood walkways connect the canopies. "Hurry! I think the ceremony is beginning". They get to the edge of a platform, some 400ft above the forest floor. Pockets of other elves, dryads, small winged beings - humanoids with dragonfly wings fluttering - can be seen here and there. A procession is visible on the shores of a shimmering small lake in a forest clearing. They walk upon lillypads towards the lake's centre that open in front of them. A huge lotus bud opens into a giant flower floating on the surface; a filigree of pale metallic/organic pattern forms atop, a dome with spire; a kind of temple of sorts. Four differently-dressed, tall slender humanoids carry a small arc (Raiders-style) between them. Atop it is a heavily decorated bowl. They place it within the structure that grew out of the flower and begin a ritual. More winged humanoids appear - butterfly wings in some cases - very large fairies? Either this is a very very early world of his, or perhaps borderlines of the Fey Wild.

Music is playing. Looks like a celebration. As the ritual completes, the building folds out and away to reveal the bowl again, now sort of welded into place as more and more flowers start to bloom out of the lake and a bigger temple complex arises from this.

Riglan senses a change in the air - time has passed rapidly - the elves around him have gone - the forest is older, larger, but withered in parts. The lake has dried up. Buildings - spires, towers etc. elegant, white stone and black wood have been built around, elven design, no need to clear the forest. There's an almost sinister feeling of being watched. Riglan perceives a kind of blazing eye in the sky, obscured by being near the sun and hard to see; he glances at it briefly; squints to try and see it; almost as if the sun itself has an iris, flaring out with intense heat; he lifts a hand to shield his own eyes, but it feels like his hand is being burned; then he realises it's not just him, but the land around; the forest is burning. As buildings around crumble, he notices that the temple in the centre now looks similar in design to the temple they first found a few weeks ago. So, since then, civilisations have been built around these sorts of temples, but it's the same sort of power at the source; sensing power similar to that temple he found a while ago, but strangely, also in the water at Wave Echo Cave, albeit weakly. So they're connected.

Things "pull back" and Riglan is a giant roc (eagle) flying along with other giant rocks trying to flee damage; tends of thousands of hectares of forest are burning as the eye casts its scorching gaze, infernos sweep and rage. Dotted temples around seem to be battlegrounds, some forces attacking, others desperately trying to defend. What happened at Wave Echo Cave was part of a longer cycle of things that has happened for a long time in Feyrun, back to a time when Feyrun and the Fey Wild overlapped more. He is sure he sees the scene he took part in for a previous dream, where he was called to battle.

A roc flies up and talks to him, shimmering and changing shape - it's is recognised as the spirit of his staff - it thanks him for awakening it.It's been trying to warn people. He's been chosen as he could hear it and help it manifest. "Heed my warning! These cycles - they come. They can't be stoped. But in every aeon, there are heroes who rise up to suppress the evil that would threaten to engulf the world and turn what is left of the beauty gifted to the physical world from the Fey, into elemental chaos". The land is rent asunder, earthquakes, sinkholes, floods and tsunamis, coast falling into the sea; steam rises from the sea; and Riglan awakes. His party have awoken too - something is happening outside - for a moment he thinks it's all real. **They see a huge storm outside, immense lightning across the sky; a crazy storm; people are out in the streets. It's nighttime. Suddenly the storm stops. Everyone is astonished.**

Riglan sighs and says, "Well, we're not finished yet, then" - and as his party watches on, surprised, he just goes back to bed.
