# Riglan: Part 4

## DAY 27

We are on our way to Wave Echo Cave. We have a team of our party, Gundren, 12 hired hands and various pack or riding animals, carts, etc.; **morale is high (+2)**. We head out at about midday.

Tools, tents etc are in mule-pulled carts. Maireagh and Temo ride near the front and the walking Gundren (wearing splint mail armour), pretty much everyone else walks. We carry the brandy cask on Riglan's horse. Of the 12, about half look like fighters and the rest are technical. Two humans, 6 dwarves, 4 gnomes. Riglan & Nethza at the rear. 7 hours of hard walking! With 1-1.5 hours of daylight left, Riglan spots a good camping spot, easy to guard and with water (good survival role). It's a pool, with another one of those springs that emerges, flows a while and dives back underground; bushes and trees around. It's all down to layers of ore veins interspersed with softer rock, leading to all these canyons, caves, springs and the like. We come of the path - which had been getting progressively less well-trodden and more indistinct and set up camp. Riglan gets a lot of foraged stuff, tho isn't able to catch anything hunting - lots of game birds (good perception) but no catches (nat 2 -> 9 survival).

People eat and drink; Maireagh is a bit withdrawn as there's just a lot of people and likewise Nethza, who doesn't know them. It's still fairly happy; Temo & Riglan do drums & horn, Temo doing well & Riglan less so (!), with the dwarves kinda getting into it & making up for any shortcomings with general noise. Convo is that kind of "brand new group" stilted. They'll only need 2 plus dog on watch over 3 shifts (6 per night). Nethza confesses to Riglan that we were warned about Halia, so she's keeping a close eye on people. Eventually people head to their tents & Watch starts up. Maireagh has a bit of a chat with Gundren, who's very worried about what lies ahead - his brothers probably dead, battles for the mine - and eventually everyone goes to bed.

## DAY 28

The camp is slowly packed down. The dwarves have breakfast, so we have some tea. Riglan asks to try a bit of the sweet pan bread thing they've made & it's pretty good. Everyone finally gets ready. Gundren offers a choice - a big 10 hour push with only one more night on the road (headed deeper into the woods; he has an old map but the track is now pretty poor and hard to make out) or if we find the going tough, we stay an extra night.

It's a windy day, with big gusts, not but too hot... Off we go. Riglan forages as we travel since the pace is stately with all the carts etc. but soon notices rare herbs and ends up finding those all day, leading to 25 units of herbs for healing. No exhaustion on hour 9 for our main party. At hour 10, Riglan and Temo get exhausted. So, we stop. Despite disadvantage (5,13 -> 5 + 7 -> 12 survival) Riglan finds an adequate camp site near a water source. The tents are split into two clusters 100ft apart as the ground is uneven and awkward. It's serviceable though watch is a bit harder. We can at least cook and eat together. We're set up on the higher area and Gundren is down on the lower. Riglan gets a decent with-disadvantage hunting roll (survival 18) and finds some eels in the water, which helps people cheer up. We share out the rare dwarven brandy, about half the cask, again to try and keep spirits up.

We do another bit of a performance with Nethza having rallied at hour 10, so she joins in and even though Temo (lute this time) and Riglan (horn) do kinda bad to average, it works out OK and people keep up morale.

Maireagh and Nethza with the dog and Gundren take over watch because everyone else is exhausted. They do OK.

## DAY 29

People aren't in a hurry to pack up in the morning as, in theory, we can reach our destination easily within the day. The dwarves have their hot cakes, a hot brew of some kind of tea with a jar of honey goes into it making it thick and sweet, which in particular the dwarves and gnomes like.

Temo & Riglan are cheerful in the morning & try to help lift spirits. **Moral is at +3**.

Gundren thinks we can reach the area outside the mine in about 7 hours. We'll have to decide what to do when we get there. If we can secure the area outside & set up camp, we will; if not, then we might need to camp a little further away.

We head off. It's still today - the wind died away overnight and surprisingly chilly here, colder than it usually would be for the time of year. That said, it's a wet area, with taller trees shading the area. Eventually, rain comes in. Everyone starts getting miserable. Riglan after a while suggests finding a place to stop rather than pressing on, and fortunately (high enough survival role) we do find a big overhanging rock ledge and, later, some dry firewood. Using create-flame etc., we start drying out and warming up, Temo gets a really good lute song going, Riglan goes hunting - finds a couple of young giant frogs (17+7 survival) - can't bring himself to kill them, so ends up trying more (20!+7) and finds lots of fish.

By about 3pm, we're a lot happier, the sun comes out and we push on. It's boggier and slower going a bit, but then this area is boggier and wetter anyway, so it's used to rain. We're getting closer and closer to where the Evermoors would be. Weather improves further with a lighter, warmish summer wind that helps dry things out, the sky clears. This makes it feel almost semi-tropical with all the wet earth but it certainly shows why the plants around are as dense and lush as they are.

Around 6pm, Gundren says "Right, look! Yes, there it is!" - he points out an area with some slightly redder/black striped rock formations along an escarpment that's exposed partly above the tree line. With the more boggy ground and changed local topography, the colours in the rock formation are only barely visible above the trees, so that makes it harder to find. So it's perhaps a bit surprising that people didn't find it somewhat, but the marsh and bogs put people off and if you didn't know to look for it, you might not recognise the overgrown track or the now-largely-hidden rock formations. We're only about a mile away now.

Since we might end up in a fight, we all move to the front with a couple of Gundren's fighters as rear guard with the carts back there too so they're not in the way. We all walk with the horses towards the back too for protection. Backpacks on, weapons ready.

On approach, Riglan starts noticing tracks/paths that perhaps were once paved, leading up to the escarpment. A large tree has been chopped down to clear the way; it used to block the entrance completely, which would've further made it very hard to find the cave. Gundren ignores it, though; the entrance has collapsed just inside. Buried under some of the rubble look to be old rusty shields, weapons, gauntlets - bits jutting out. Temo recognises this (history check) from reading - fall of the cave & forge was when the orc tribes swept down from the North to claim as their dominion the now-so-called "Savage North"; primary target was the Forge; this is where the Deepgarden Pact had its last stand - gnomes, dwarves and humans held as long as they could. The siege lasted nearly 3 weeks. Lots of magic used, causing eventually tunnel collapse, burying combatants and defendants alike but sealing it all off. With so many surrounding towns & villages being attacked by orcs, knowledge of the cave location was mostly lost.

Gundren says - yeah, but we found *this!* - and takes us to a natural cavern at least 80ft further along and 30ft up on the hillside. Has a bit of a ledge that we can climb up to. The animals maybe not. Before we make rash decisions, Riglan calls a Wild Companion of a bat and sends it into the cave. He can hear other bat-like things (maybe sturges - bloodsucking furry bats?) that use the passage. The tunnel goes for about 90ft before reaching a large cavern full of stalagmites rising and a huge central rock pillar. Probably about 30ft high, 80ft wide. There's stuff on the floor, bat isn't sure what, nothing moving though. Bat hangs for a while and it's still quiet. It doesn't seem freaked out. Very faint vibrations as it hangs, as if something loud but distant is going on. Rippling through the rock. Rhythmic, a sort of wubwubwub that rises and falls, moving across/through the rock in waves. Infrequent - order of a minute or so.

On the NE side is a bit of a collapsed floor area, 20ft deep, at the bottom it senses two tunnels leading off, one SE and one NW. The bat goes down the SE one, which quite quickly pops out into a strange area. It senses that some walls are smooth and some are "natural". Many tunnels lead off, some very square and some not. But another 30ft high cavern. The bat is suddenly startled and flies back - it's encountered a large number of sturges. It comes back sits on Riglan's shoulder.

We decide to head up, animals and all. No ambush, at least. We try to create an encampment inside the cavern which provides a defensive perimeter with patrols around the collapsed area leading deeper, and easy access to the entrance tunnel. The ledge is only about 15ft x 10ft with a 10ft wide to just under 10ft high entrance. Almost a bit cramped for Riglan! The tunnel ascends slightly up to the cavern. Dark inside. The dwarves light some lamps, somewhat begrudgingly.

We can now all see this cavern, with its big central pillar and 3 stalagmites. We see lots of supplies and a camp that seems to be set up - people in front are shocked - Gundren runs over, collapses and starts shouting "no!". There's a body of a dwarf, "Tharden" - a brother. We see 3 bedrolls, bags, sacks of food, lanterns - this was a significant camp to live in. Riglan looks at Tharden and does not right away see any obvious cause of death; no wounds. Maireagh consoles Gundren while Riglan checks closer. It's been dead a number of weeks. Riglan sees a small, sharp entrypoint wound on his neck between his armour plates. A surprise attack; an assassination. Small blade weapon or similar.

The miners set up a perimeter, check for airflow - there's a distinct airflow surprisingly; there's air coming from *inside* the cave that's blowing out, which waxes and wanes. Every 2 minutes this weird echo / vibration sounds. Almost like waves crashing on a shore. There's a correlation between the wind and the noise. So the wind is also rhythmic. Thorough search of the cave floor on this level - nobody is found.

One really weird thing - Tharden looks like he was killed and laid back down on the spot, except his boots are missing! Riglan shows Maireagh, who asks Gundren. Gundren says that he had boots of springing & striding - magical boots; so he was robbed.

There's a sturdy hemp rope ladder tied to a stalagmite by the NE pit - it's an easy way to climb down. We pull that *up* to make it hard for anyone to climb out.

Nethza and Maireagh set up tents while Riglan works with his bat again, this time on the NW tunnel. It pops out quickly - a tight squeeze for Riglan but manageable if he should choose it. It's a maze. Tunnels *everywhere*. Even the bat gets almost lost. Some are collapsed, some are not. At least no blood sucking bats in that area. It's uncertain and anxious though; there's something dangerous here but it can't figure out what it is. Oddly, there are *no* other creatures it hears. No bats, sturges, or lizards. Something's kept them away. Most of the tunnels are perpendicular to each other, roughly 9ft wide, "square" sided with polished stone slabs all around except for collapsed sections. It's not like there's some scary giant worm that dug them; these are originally constructed, artificial tunnels.

The bat finds its way into a roughly square shaped cavern. Half of the floor is covered by water and water is also running. The bat doesn't sense living creatures here either; only the water moves. It notices an entrance to the E and starts to head that way, but finds a passage and senses what Riglan recognises as doors. It finds stairs; another large cavern; a short waterfall and a distinct ledge. Riglan has lost some sense of direction from all the turns. Shallower water it seems, an old stream bed? Living creatures! The bat flies to the ceiling and hangs. The booming sound is louder here, so Riglan figures a general North-East direction for the bat's travels. **Humanoids here; maybe five**. This is about 10 minutes of flight in. There is talking but the language is unfamiliar. Clanging sounds; rock being moved; rubble being shifted and piled up. Work is being done.

The bat isn't sure what to do, so it flies over the waterfall area and finds another tunnel. Opposite, another set of stairs but it can hear **more voices and people there** too. Goes down the tunnel instead; natural, twisty. Terminates in a *huge* cavern, with a vast waterfall. The water bubbles somewhere in the distance and as it does this, the water level rises and at times crashes as a wave against surrounding rock which creates shock waves that cause the noises. Overflowing from one cavern to another causing surges which push the air around. Sort of bucket fountain-y.

The bat takes some random passageway that seems roughly opposite where it entered - so that's over the water - finds another cavern, with a very ominous feel. It can "see" with echo location what might be part of an abandoned town? Buildings; square, walls, ceilings, roofs, steps etc. - maybe around 3 buildings in the multi-level cavern floor. There is movement too, but it doesn't feel like life. Slow moving creatures are walking around, humanoid. Suspect undead. The bat freaks out and leaves this cave. The air becomes hotter here - there is fire & I sense distress - and the connection is lost. **The familiar has gone**.

We realise we can just block of the tunnel with the sturges so lower the ladder and do that, with bits of wood, tarp, rock etc., then bring the ladder back up. Riglan summons the wolves (L2), gets 4 and sends them back down the trail for just under 30 mins to see if we have followers. Tharden's body is wrapped up, taken outside and buried, but we'll exhume it and bring him back to town for a proper burial once we're finished here. Gundren is trying to officiate over the camp, but is very worried, beyond his grief about Tharden. He wants to get back into the tunnel ASAP to find his other brother and he has responsibilities... He is conflicted.

The wolves return. They saw no signs of people following. (They also say that the pups are nearly due, before they vanish/head back).

We long rest, with watches.

## DAY 30

The horses have apples. We have breakfast. Without further ado, we lower the ladder and head down, telling the others to pull the ladder up behind us. Riglan casts Darkvision. We head away from the Sturges cavern, on the other tunnel, proceeding cautiously, looking for whatever creature was suspected by the bat on its flight.

The tunnel is about 10ft wide. Riglan is awkward. We reach a crossroads junction. Crap perception roll (for group; advantage negates dim light darkvision disavantage). The polished wall tunnels are only about 6ft high! Only this strange one, that cuts across, is wider and taller. Gundren and Maireagh think that the rough tunnels are *older*. Riglan waits a while for the periodic wave sound/wind. The wind seems to come marginally more from ahead, down the wider older tunnel (facing roughly North). It also comes from the right (E).

We take the square constructed right hand (Eastern) tunnel. Part of it is blocked, so we're forced back Northwards briefly. It's maze-like; a tunnel to the right (E); another further on also E-W. And so it goes on... Exploring, gathering a sense of the map. Eventually we find a door. Not trapped. Riglan goes in - so, not locked. Strange foul smell. He hears crunching sounds. There are old stone bunks in orderly rows, a corroded iron brasier in the middle with old coals, skeletons around - 6-10 at least - with 3 hunched figures squatting over the remains, pawing at them hungrily. Sunken hollowed eyes look up. These aren't zombies... These are more gaunt, and way, way more hungry. Ghouls... Attack! We get through them easily in barely two rounds taking no damage.

There's nothing else left in the room. There's a door at the room's far end. Temo checks it. All good. Leads back to corridors. One opens to a large cavern. Riglan hears nothing from it other than the natural noises. More exploration. We end up back towards the NE edge of where we'd explored. A N-ward tunnel heads up some stairs to a big cavern. Temo and Riglan head ahead, Temo rolling 20+9 for stealth (Riglan only 13), the others waiting. Stone tiles can be seen at the near edge of the cavern, ceiling at least 20ft and rising out of view. Almost seems to have specks of light - could be luminescent, or reflections of some light source we can't see yet, almost like stars in the sky. They don't move. Sparse. Riglan notices movement 40-50ft in the shadows in the area in front of him. It's basically a wide ledge that we're on, he realises; one set of carved stone stairs ahead 30ft ish & maybe 20ft to the right descend down. The movement seems to be multiple forms. There's a big rock pillar, the movement shuffling around it. Possibly headed towards us. We decide to creep back down towards the others - but as we turn around, Riglan suddenly sees something on the ceiling above Maireagh and Gundren, odd thing, reaching down towards them. Riglan throws a controlled flame (19, max damage 8) and sees a large weird ochre squishy creature that retreats away. It must've sneaked up on the party while we were looking at the cavern.

While we're dispatching that - and 5ft+5ft lights on - sharp weapons cleave it in two, both parts living, so we try for other options right up until a bunch of ghouls burst out of the cave behind and it's just a mess of cramped corridor fighting from there. We manage to do enough damage to the things on the roof to knock them out and eventually defeat the 7 ghouls; we take a look at the cavern from which they emerged, with lights off.

We enter from the South up some stairs, at a ledge with stalagmites and a central rock column. It runs along the W edge of the cavern, so we turn to look across, Eastwards. Eyes adjusting, we see skeletons on the ground wearing armour, some crushed. On the edge where the escarpment drops off, there's actually a soft glow of light in the North along a passageway which is casting enough to be able to see further than we would without it. With this, we can see a smaller escarpment on the far side of the cavern with stairs up, with another light source showing above it. Maybe 120ft away. Crackling sounds distant - firelight. We head down the E side stairs, about 10ft.

We notice carnage! The ground down there has 4 huge tables like a massive dining hall. Broken in places, with broken chairs. Looks like it was a main dining hall cavern. Diameter is revised to about 70ft across from stairs to stairs on the ones we came down and those we can just make up on the other side heading to the smaller, Northerly escarpment. 60-70 bodies at a guess. Rough hewn stone walls, with evidence of decorations but natural nonetheless.

The low N light source via a corridor is squared off. Bigger than the others tho - 15ft high. We see stairs at the end, going up and meeting a T-junction; we can see the light source is off to the right (East) branch. Riglan notices that the flickering from this and the upper light source seems to be synchronised. Maireagh and Gundren are horrified. Bodies are dwarves, orcs and gnomes. We're whispering. Gundren says, "This was an almighty battle! What happened?! How did they all die?" - looking closer, it seems like they just all dropped at the same time. Nethza is just creeped out; she's very jumpy. She thinks there might be undead. We should keep back to back in case any are lying quietly wanting to jump us. Not a bad suggestion!

Temo stealths up the far stairs... He's on a much smaller escarpment than the one we arrived on. A smaller table, with another dozen remains. Two are sat in chairs; a more regal table? But sat down in the middle of battle? All are dwarves here. Temo can't figure it out. If he came off the stairs onto the escarpment he'll have a direct line of sight down the tunnel with light at the end; again smooth and square. To avoid possibly being seen, he climbs up the side near the stairs top, he rolls to the corner by the corridor and peeks around. He thinks he sees bodies on the floor with a quick peek, but only sees part of it (poor perception). He goes back to join the group and conveys the information.

Nethza spots a dark corridor to the South. We do a quick check down there, suspecting that it heads back to a junction we've been to before; behind the room we battled in before, towards the as-yet unexplored Southward cave that we suspect has the Sturges were in. BUT - there's a small Eastern spur with a chamber in it. Looks like a room where parts collapsed, especially on its South wall. There's a door on the North wall. Temo checks it. It seems to be unlocked and is ajar. He cautiously pushes it open. A stale smell wafts out. He looks in. There's an intact store room, 30ft x 30ft, not collapsed. Nobody here; abandoned for a long time. Dusty kegs tucked against all walls. Most have cracked or split and collapsed under their own weight. Dry! Must've been a beer store or similar. We use this relatively secure space for a short rest and Gundren is able to draw up a rough map of the caverns and tunnels so far. The dog stands guard.

We come back out and return to the cavern. Riglan gets a companion spider which can get to the room Temo saw at the limit of communication range, walking along the roof. A weird room! Rough walls and across one corner, a deep channel with water wheel (but no water) driving bellows on a massive smelter/furnace. Bodies on floor. Ceiling is almost 20ft high, furnace filling most of it (15+ft). The light source here "notices" the spider & turns towards it. A floating skull, blazing with red and green flame. It blasts the spider, which almost dies! But Riglan see this coming and just in time gets it out of the way. It runs back towards Riglan. (Spider rolled nat 20 dex save). It gets back to me but the skull has not followed, luckily. Spider gets sent out to the other passage, and can see into the room from that side; from this side, it sees the scull "partroling" the other side and seems to not notice or ignore the spider on this side. The scull starts to return to the middle of the room & spider runs off back to Riglan but then realises there's a door in this corner, so rather than going back down, it goes under gap it can see there instead. Safety, comparatively! The room is, surprisingly, lit. Barracks. A door in the far end. There is a barricade on the inside of the door it went under. Tables etc. piled up. Old stone bunks line the walls. A glowing iron brazier is providing the light. Five bugbears are in the room. They've barricaded themselves against entry on that side. The far door is not barricaded & spider tries to get there. Under it, there's another corridor. It starts to come together; what the bat saw and the spider. The spider comes back and the party backtracks, heading eventually to a North Western corner which is the big cavern with water covering much of the floor space.

We're trying to be careful & watchful but rolling perception with disadvantage yields a 1 (Riglan) and 3+1 (Temo) so we see nothing (!). We do hear bat wings echoing now and then. Sturges, we assume. We do get to the big cavern without being attacked tho. Water seems to be flowing out of the room; implies upwelling. Riglan turns into... ...A trout! Tada. Darkvision 60ft, apparently. It's shallow mostly, 20ft at the deepest. NE stream only 3ft deep. It's wadeable, just about. Tight fit for Riglan. He tries to find something interesting but another two rolls of nat 1 (!!) mean - not much found. Bumps into a skeleton, most clothing rotted away, BUT some fibres still around it. Arrows stuck in the ribcage. Human sized. 15ft from pool edge, under about 10ft of water. It's clutching something. Can't tell what it is. Something intact around its wrists and ankles made of fabric, too; maybe something fabric around its head? Hard to see (nat 1 -> 8 perception). Following the stream a bit - the short tunnel, 10-15ft long only actually - then opens up into a cavern. Speed increasing and Riglan knows there's a waterfall in there somewhere, so Riglan turns around and swims hard to the main chamber.

Riglan turns back into himself next to the skeleton & tows it gently ashore. Riglan explains what he saw & we examine this skeleton. Nethza thinks it was human based on the size and skull shape. It's wearing a pointy strange silk hat. Long cuffs. Tops of slippers on the ankles. Very wizard-y! Grasping a wand. Two platinum rings on its fingers. Arcana: Maireagh - tells us that they're platinum rings (!). We take them. Wand is magical. Unsure of properties. The cuffs have some glamour magic remnants but are otherwise unremarkable. So this is a wizard that sadly died via arrows defending, probably, the cave. Eight arrows. Must've been overwhelmed.

Maireagh can identify this in 10 minutes. We put everyone else at watch on the cave entrances while she does the ritual. It seems to be a wand that searches for magic; a wand of channelling. It's empty of magic right now but if attuned to, it'll take on their magic. After some discussion, we realise Temo is the only one of us that needs something like this potentially (it came down to him or Riglan) but also has a hand free in battle, for spell casing purposes. So Temo uses a spell slot to attune *it* to *his* magic. D4 roll 1. It is a wand of Magic Missiles. 7 charges. If all spent, roll D20 and on 1 it is destroyed - but Temo can't ever roll a 1. Yay! He tucks it into his belt. He also notices that his expended spell energy seems to be back with him, as if the wand returned it.

We head down the corridor that flanks the bugbear barracks. We burst in and use surprise to attack. Riglan is last in the room, closing the door to try and keep the noise down! Riglan hits nothing the whole time but the team does OK, though Gundren takes a lot of damage so we have a short rest. Riglan uses a spirit totem to grant 9 temp HP beforehand. While people rest, Temo investigates the room. The dead bodies we've seen elsewhere are in this room all piled into a corner. We find a small satchel with a few coins and a potion that's got a crimson colour, almost a pulsing glow; not the same as a healing potion. We realise it's a potion of vitality! Very rare. There are a few pages of a journal and some miscellaneous notes, written in, Riglan says, Elvish. Same handwriting we've seen before - presumed Black Spider. During the battle, one of the bugbears had called for someone else to "warn the Black Spider that there are intruders here", so we reckon the Spider is present.

The notes seem to fill in a back story about what they've discovered, along with less of a journal and more instructions. "Flaming scull does not appear to leave the smelter room, however do not enter it. Advice: Barricade door just in case other undead attempt entry. Do not engage with the Wraith, Mormesk; do not speak to it. Do not heed any of its pleas. Your job is to defend me while I search."

Other notes include "...the other dwarf is refusing to divulge. I'm sure he knows something. It's only a matter of time before he breaks. If he proves to be useless, I shall kill him too. Do not let anyone pass the corridor. Do not just hide out in the barracks, you cowards! Patrol the hallways and make sure nothing makes it past the pool to us. We need to find a way to get to the forge. I know it is beyond where we can reach. I will assign three of you to help my agent in the excavation at the bottom of the pit. Perhaps we will find some way of traversing."

Additional note: "Flaming scull: It can be killed. I have secured a bottle of holy water. If it is taken down, I'm sure that pouring holy water on it will dispel the magic that holds its oath to protect the smelter." Other notes describe "general" flaming sculls (!), some page from someone else that's mixed in there. "I have found research on flaming sculls and here are some notes from my book for you." It is basically "don't go near it" rules. "...no point trying to reason with it; it has long lost its intellect. The only thing it remembers are its spells".

Finally there's a list of things that he wants, which looks more recent; instructions on things to bring up to him and so-on. "...unless you're bringing me these things, don't disturb me. I'm studying what I've found in the temple." The list includes requests for food and medicines and, oddly, some big insects - sounds like something you'd want for a giant spider. But the quantities are truly enormous. He references finding them "...for my spiders".

We figure that "temple" means the weird village thing Riglan saw through the bat, and that maybe the smaller force (doing the excavation/dig) are the people we know are up the nearby stairs.

We go up the stairs to a T-junction. Cave with water noises to the left, but to the right a grand entrance 20ft tall with statues of Dumathoin, a Dwarven god of mining. It's the entrance to a temple. Stone double doors, gilded with copper and bronze. Oh! Temple. Black Spider in there? We'd better be quiet. So, we go the *other* way to try and find the excavation team (and maybe brother, who is *somewhere*). Stairs down into the room into the cavern. Riglan calls back the spider (it having been 2 short rests since last, so it'd vanished). It heads along the wall into the cavern. It's big - ascends and descends about 20ft, so about 40ft height (maybe more) at the tallest. A stream flows out just left of the stairs exit, plunging down a waterfall to the 20ft floor below. On the other side of that a bugbear guards another entrance tunnel, with torches. There are torches below; there are bodies and some people below, along with openings on the opposite side, but there's a chasm which looks like it was created by an earthquake or similar.

Temo and Nethza will try to surprise the guard bugbear and take him down. Riglan disguises himself as a bugbear to lure the guard closer, then Temo aims through his legs! Between Temo and Nethza, the guard is taken down. It starts to fall forwards into the stream but Riglan uses Arctic Blast to push it backwards. Still disguised as a bugbear, Riglan looks down - the two bugbears and hooded figure 20ft below down the chasm hasn't noticed. We head up into the guarded passage. Transpires it connects to the same temple. So I guess we're doing this...  Nethza gets her armour on and we wait just one more moment in a kink in the passageway to have the spider take a look. An altar on the North wall; statues lining the West and East walls, 3 apiece; double doors at the far end from the other connecting passage shut. Two bugbears flank the altar. Spider freaks out and retreats - it senses others spiders that might see it. The spider returns to Riglan. There's just enough time to see a giant spider standing next to a drow in front of the altar. Above the altar is a giant statue of the god of mining. A small campfire has been set in the far NW corner.

We start a surprise attack (and a 2nd giant spider shows itself) but then the Drow does the whole "who dares come here" thing and we get into a brief dialogue. He calls himself Nezznar. A male drow with very ornate armour, black leather with silver accents and small gold ornamentation. He holds a big staff, glossy black, with some kind of spider shape on top and onyx globe inset. Long white/silver hair tied back. Wears a circlet. Very over-the-top! Silver chains, almost like chain mail over the black leather, with other silver chain tassels with little hooks on the end, many rings with gems, bracelets and so-on.

He offers to give Gundren his brother, unharmed, if we gain & clear a path for him to the forge of spells. He mentions the flame scull and a cavern of poisonous, glowing mushrooms blocking the other way.

Riglan notices in the shadows that there are two more giant spiders in hiding and surmises that Nezznar only wants us to help him get to the forge and would likely attack us anyway. We restart the battle, but Nezznar casts an invisibility spell. Riglan signalled battle restart by turning into a wolf spider, but this means he can't cast Fairie Lights or whatever and Temo can't figure out what the magic was.

It takes a while but we succeed; Maireagh uses her shield and casts the equivalent of Fairea Fire. It lights up one bugbear and Nezznar. In the end, we take them all down. Temo finds a locked door in the corner of the room, through which is a small priest's room. An unconscious dwarf is there! We call over Gundren and heal the dwarf a little. **It's Nundro, his remaining brother**.

* On Nezznar we find **boots of striding & springing**, a **small iron key** with a head shaped like an anvil, two potions of healing (**marked**), his magical staff (Riglan doesn't recognise it) - obsidian spider staff - and of course his very fancy clothing and jewellery. Between Temo and Maireagh. Fuck it, let's loot. So we remove all we can, recovering **equivalent of 29 platinum** in gems and jewellery.
* In the rest of the room, equivalent of **10 rations**, **two bottles of wine**, and things discovered during exploration including details about the flaming scull, the wraith, a map and other information. There's a record of things found and a small journal with incriminating evidence against Black Spider; he **talks about his employer**, directions he's been given including paying the bugbear in the cave early on and the "king" at Cragmore; and so-on. Includes amount he'd promised to pay Iarno (he'd hand over Deepgarden Keep).
* There are notes about **Halia Thornton, the Zhentarim agent in Deepgarden** - there's an uneasy truce; he wanted Iarno to get dirt on the Zhentarim because they would become a threat once he'd sorted out the mine. He also paid the Zhentarim to sneak out him or his agents if they were caught. Basically, they are using each other but don't trust each other.
* We find a lot of research about the Forge Of Spells and how it works. He'd probably have been able to restart things quickly if he'd ever reached it. It even talks about "activating artefacts". Magic apparently goes back to lost kingdom of Ilepharn. Ancient Ilepharn artefacts, now long dormant or appearing as apparently low-power magic items, could be reawakened and regain their original power if brought back to the forge.
* We find the **vial of holy water** along with bed rolls etc., which we can collect.

Nethza suggests dragging the body of Nezznar to the chasm and telling the people there to leave. Gundren doesn't want anyone leaving who knows the location, especially since the Black Spider isn't the top of the chain. Temo does try to convince him - we don't have to kill these people necessarily, so this feels like we're the bad guys. Riglan helps, but Temo rolls 6 twice (!) for 14 total.

We do agree to try and talk to them. Riglan and Temo take the body to the ledge and shout about how the spider is dead; they should come quietly, and will be prisoners until we've secured the mine, but they won't be harmed. At that, both of us feel something trying to enter our minds - the hooded creature is trying something. We shrug off the effects. Then we hear a pleading, "help me, I'm a prisoner" etc., and we see it looking like Nundro! Doppelganger. We end up attacking it and take it down; the bugbears lay down their weapons instead of joining combat.

Temo notices a pile of stuff in a sack that the bugbears had accumulated. He asks the bugbears. They say they'd been asked to search & collect magic items from the many dead bodies. But they didn't know what was magical so just collected it all! Riglan takes it.

So - we all head back to camp, bugbears in tow, having tied their hands and confiscated their weapons. Riglan assures them they'll be captive, for secrecy of location, but will be well treated and not harmed.

We get to camp. The bugbears are taken into custody, so to speak; we bring people up to date, and meanwhile Riglan empties the sack and casts Detect Magic. Nothing is magical! Just rusty stuff. Mostly junk. The bugbears say that the doppelganger (Vhalak) told them there we magic items in the pit but refused to pick up anything. We decide to take a proper rest, it's only just after midday, but first we'll check cavern again. Maireagh and Riglan decide to go back, Temo and Nethza come too, just to check the cave. We both sense the same thing and head to the same place in a pile of skeletons. As respectfully as we can we dig down. There's a pair of gauntlets. We take those up to the camp so she can identify both those and Nezznar's staff. We do note that there's magic everywhere, even in the air, but also some faint magic in the water. It's quite confusing and we were lucky to find the gauntlets (good roll).

We wonder if everyone here was killed by whatever created the chasm. Some people were clearly crushed by rocks; trapped by boulders. Back at camp, we warn Gundren of this possibility, but he thinks it's down to the amount of spell magic released by the battle. (Nezznar's notes have more on it).

Back at camp, identification reveals:

* Gauntlets of Ogre Power
* Spider Staff

We decide to rest for the rest of the day - it's been a very busy time prior! Everyone has food. People think they can wander into the tunnels, but they find a few undead wandering around. It's a long way off clear yet. The captive bugbears acknowledge this - it's why they didn't patrol, whatever their instructions were. Undead don't open doors, though!

Riglan helps Temo look through the paperwork, for references to the undead or the wraith. We can't find anything on top of notes already found. Next we look for info on getting the forge going. There are some very clear instructions, albeit someone's opinion, as yet untested. A lot of history tho. Nezznar thought that the cave and forge were well known several hundred years ago; it had come under siege several times, which is part of why there was always lots of diplomacy to try and maintain shared access and peace, in tenuous arrangements as part of the Deepgarden Pact. When the elves withdrew from the north, orcs and barbarians stormed through the region and assaulted the cave. It was one of the last strongholds, with the best fighters of the Pact (the people of the Pact feeling somewhat abandoned by the pact). The magic released caused the cave-ins. They'd rather rip the place apart than have it fall into the wrong hands. The mages gave up their lives to become undead protectors - that's part of where the scull came from. The only saving grace in today's world is that the overall power of magic in the world has declined, so the forge itself is far less powerful - still very valuable, but not necessarily world-breaking anymore and, so, hopefully less worthy of major battles (and less lost even if it fell). A legendary past with a more mundane present.

We note that none of our party has a strong connection to those historical noble bloodlines; only loose associations. We're unlikely to be able to portray ourselves as rightful inheritors. We are, at least, not orcs or barbarians. A moot point as long as undead are attacking on sight.

Long rest.
