# Riglan: Part 10

## DAY 60

We're at summit hall, after rescuing 17 people from the Order Of The Sacred Stone monastery, faced with choices:

* Back to the monastery and deep below, though Renwick implied we weren't ready - with or without a key to the Stairway
* To the pirate Keep, with books stolen from the Mirabar delegation
* To the Feathergails tower, with risk of griffon attack, on a rescue mission for the people believed taken there - perhaps with books too

The one member of the delegation we did manage to rescue is most upset about the books, but surely, the delegates' lives should come first.

We get up and go downstairs to the main hall. Bruldenthar isn't there. Riglan asks if they've seen him - they say he kept to himself and is one of the rooms. Sounds like he kept himself distant. We head to his room. A bit more himself; more aloof, of course, but also calmer. We ask about the location of the pirate keep; the boats went down river, and it's right on there - on the far side. He seems to be rallying; is thinking of ways to achieve things he was trying to do before. We say that we'll be heading that way, and will try to both rescue people and recover the books; how should we contact him? He says we should contact Summit Hall and he'll make sure they know where he is.

Riglan senses (insight 11+5) that he isn't sure how to answer, really, because he's no idea where he'll be. He talks of the Lords Alliance, of which he is part; so we could also contact any of them, and they could get the books back to Mirabar. He would prefer that to them going to Waterdeep, though his answer lacks conviction.

Nethza suggests we also talk to the other 16, so we go down and join in with breakfast. Riglan asks an open ended question; what happened? How did they get to the monastery? There are traders; farmers; city folk; some abducted from as far away as Triboar. (Riglan: Insight or Perception, Nat 1 anyway). Temo is socially adept and weighs in. He's trying to persuade people to open up more, especially if he hears about the "pirate" keep (persuasion 17+10). Some have been there for quite a while; but of the 16, many are the last surviving member of once larger groups. The odd pair, but mostly people who were caught in groups.

Riglan is now the one listening (insight only 8+5, sigh). He gets a sense that it's somewhat aimless conversation, but he figures he could just ask where the keep is - but that's not the most useful thing they could tell him. We want to know more about who was involved; what was going on on down there. Two people were not taken by the monastery; initially it was bandits, then they were traded. They were traders going down the river; their boats were captured, then they were sold off to the monastery. They knew of other trades too - slave trading. They don't think it was particularly targeted and are surprised at the delegation's capture. Was it even that? Perhaps it was random? They do already know the location of the Fane - it was in the journal - but they were showing a particular interest. Still, Bruldenthar was in the mines - so he wasn't of interest, apparently!

Riglan is trying to figure it out still (another insight roll - nat 20! + 5). He realises that the group have mentioned something he missed, being focused on the dwarf, keep and books - they keep mentioning the mines; they were brought there to work those mines; but **why**. What were they working *on* and why capture people when there were monks present? The group doesn't really know what they were doing there themselves; just digging tunnels. Some have been there for months, with nothing of value found. Riglan wonders if it was a search - the tunnels were going somewhere? Yet some tunnels doubled back and created loops. Riglan asks if they can draw the tunnel layout? They can - they worked on them daily. The group works together with parchment to figure it out. The only area they didn't dig near was the Sacred Stair, else they dug in just about every direction. The spoil that was dug out was never sifted through or checked, it was just left there. There is no pattern to the tunnels that we can discern - no runes, or anything, just digging for digging's sake. Sometimes they'd take dug out areas and use that soil to fill in other tunnels; sometimes they'd dig out tunnels they'd already dug. It was almost just punishment. Those who fell died of exhaustion and/or malnutrition.

Sometimes, monsters would attack from below - a Bulette or Grick or whatever - the monks or priests would retreat and let them flee / fend for themselves. So they weren't a workforce that needed any kind of protection. They didn't even seem to care for each other (the monks). One of the captured people said their group had originally been taken by vicious people burning farms, marching them off, talking about them as if they'd be sacrifices to an effigy. The stone monks waylaid and attacked; the captives were then taken by the monks.

The aforementioned river traders were travelling on assurance of a safer river following cleaning up after some attacks - oh dear. There are a number or ruined keeps but this one had been prepared and had proper docks, which even extend under the keep where the waterways continue for some distance. The note that the architecture is not dissimilar to Summit Hall. (Riverguard Keep, the knights say).

Meanwhile, someone from Red Larch is in the 16 rescued people and knows of a place a day ish travel into the hills that sounds like the Feathergail tower. There are stories of the Sighing Valley that the Lost River flows through. A dangerous area! The Howling Plateau; Griffons, Manticores, Giant Vultures. The valley is somewhere between the Larch Path & River.

The conversation is allowed to wander onto happier topics. The rescued people start figuring out ways to get home; one group will have a few knights an escort to Beliard, while the other are headed to Womford and will go separate ways from there. The Beliard group head off mid-morning, hoping to get there the same day before inns close. The other group have a two day journey to Womford so don't need to rush off as they have to camp anyway.

"You know, you're very close the High Forest - it'll take only a little more than day to get there on horseback", says one. Tempting! But we can't abandon our sort-of-friends in the tower.

So, we pack up and leave late morning. Knowing that we have to cross the river and negotiate some probably quite steep hills, the knights suggest that they look after our horse and mules. We thank them and agree, so we leave only feed in the saddlebags and head off on foot.

We go North on the road up to the first hill where we know we can see the air cult tower (2hrs). We look for the tower (Riglan perception 9+9). There's low cloud but not hugging the hills; Riglan thinks he can just about make out the silhouette - and probably birds too. It's a long way away; dozens of miles. 25-50 maybe. Hard to say. Perhaps not between the Larch Path and the river - might even be the other side of it.

We try to take a bearing and head towards the river, using the track we've been on before. Downhill so fast going, maybe 3pm if not earlier. Riglan uses his ritual and we cross on the weird frozen river in one single go. It's wide here and we track downstream to the bank we know where we can climb out. We have of course ended up close to the monastery again, but we continue in the best-guess direction of the tower. Riglan survival Nat 20 (again!) + 8. We climb a hill, and can even see where the monastery should be, further south. The gorge that it is in might head where we want, actually, or we could continue south to try and find another passage through the hills; or a third option is to climb up ridges to try and stay on hills that way to keep a vantage point (but getting between hills will be tricky). The giant birds will eventually be a problem but for now, we'll try to keep high; we'd only have to keep climbing out of gorges etc. to get our bearings anyway.

We keep going, along and down a hill, keeping eyes peeled after about 5pm for a water source. It's down in the valley. We fill our containers and continue up the next hill, looking for a place in trees to camp. Riglan finds a good spot, where tree roots arch over a boulder; Riglan can make a shelter - it's not too bad (survival 8+8). We don't risk a fire, but Riglan's natural abilities let him find plenty of vegetarian food to go with our smoked black dragon.

We were climbing up heading West when we camped; our view therefore is mostly to the East. We think we might be able to see occasional glints of light on the river, travelling along; in fact we realise we can see, after the sun goes down, beyond the hills to the South - across the plains. Riglan (perception 7+8, sigh) thinks he sees flickering lights, some 8-10 miles away; he theorises that it might be Riverguard Keep.

If we can see them, they can see us, so if we do light any lights we keep them down low in the shelter, masked. We dig around in Maireagh's bag and realise we have all the drinks from Yartar; so we crack open the dwarven ale and get in a couple of pints. It goes to Temo's head a bit, and we're munching away on our food & drinking & it's really nice. We haven't had fun in a while, and this location has a similar nice feel to the cave we found before the monastery, so it's a double win.

Watch is uneventful, thankfully! Riglan gets to see the sun rise slowly in the east, as he always takes the last watch into dawn breaking. He knows where to look now and checks for what he thought was the keep last night - he can see something that might be it; it seems overgrown and crumbling; yet we certainly saw lights from what seemed to be that place. Perhaps he's seeing another of the keeps along that way which the rescued group mentioned, and not the one he thought he saw last night.

## DAY 61

We pack up and head out, trying to use cover where we can to avoid detection as we get closer.

Cresting a first hill (Riglan: perception 19+8) we note that the wind is blowing strongly from the west (weather chosen by dice roll), so they won't smell us coming (!) but it's kind of gale force, even though the clouds have cleared somewhat after yesterday's grey day. The tower is easier to see, but we only see the top still, so we need to move another hill or two along to get higher for a better vantage point.

We tend to just go down, up, down, up trying to track in a straight direction. It's slow going but we see no giant birds - we think we've got very lucky; too windy. On one of the hills, Riglan and Nethza start to really struggle (athletics check DC 10 failed - Riglan nat 1 + 6!).

At the top, we need to stop and rest - 4h of travel in, just past midday. A beautiful old Stone Pine grows near the top of the hill in a kind of flat saddle down from the crest, and we shelter under it. The wind abates a little but not much (20 rolled before, 19 now!). Only wispy small clouds, streaking across the sky. Ahead is a lower plateau with a valley, almost a canyon, weaving through it. We can see that a stream flows down from a craggy hill north of us, we presume from a spring somewhere, short waterfalls here and there plunging into the canyon. We also clearly see the tower. The wind seems to funnel through the canyon from the dust and bits of water spray we see, but only when the canyon aligns - it seems to be either blowing over it sideways, or along its length as it twists and turns. Small columns of rock are left as islands here and there from erosion. Almost a small Grand Canyon vibe. On one of the largest of these tors, is the tower itself. It's too far there to see the canyon bottom; looks hard to get to. We don't know if there's a land connection - it might be air-accessible only. Size is hard to judge at this distance; at least 80ft from bottom to top. Details are hard to make out (perception 5+8). It seems symmetrical in design with a flat top rather than a point spire (Riglan guesses that it might be for from-air landings). He tries to judge the height of the rocky outcrop but we can't see the canyon base at that point due to the twists, turns and distance. All said, the tower looks well maintained - repaired, or magically maintained, who knows - but it has a beautiful white limestone-like appearance with some kind of translucent, shiny, reflective stone embellishments; it's hard to miss when lit by the sun so no wonder we saw it in the late evening sun so clearly that one time.

There's something attached to the flat top, Riglan realises after a while. A crown of thorns? Or spikes, perhaps decorative; looks like a crown; they stick out horizontally. Bird perches?! From the very centre is a narrow metal-looking spire of some kind (almost like a lightning rod). Riglan doesn't know if this is decorative or functional, and couldn't guess its function anyway, but it's not wide enough to contain any rooms. Down the length of the tower it steps out to wider sections, about 4 times, from wider windows to elegant narrow chapel-like windows, to strange triangular windows, to very small keep-like slit windows. It's quite beautiful! Riglan describes it as best he can to those who can't see so clearly. He can't send any birds or similar as the same wind that seems to be stopping them flying, stops us flying too.

If we were to descend and head straight towards the tower, we'd reach the canyon edge after about 2 miles, but it's maybe 1500ft wide (about 1/4 mile) at that point with the tower's stone pillar close to the *farthest* side (Western) away from us. As we consider our options, Riglan keeps looking (perception nat 20+8). He spots very slight movement on the top of the tower; an unfurling of wings; the birds are up there. They are probably keeping an eye on the surrounding countryside. As he looks, he notices that 5-8 miles roughly northwards, he sees *another* keep on top of another hill. It looks very different; fortified walls encircle it.

We decide to take best possible cover of trees but head shortest distance to the canyon wall across the plateau, to see what we can see there. Riglan casts Pass Without A Trace to try and cross the more exposed plateau without detection (stealth rolls with advantage, decent results). We don't want to risk rushing and being seen, so we take our time - it's almost an hour to the edge of the plateau with the spell almost expiring. We look to see if there are easy ways down (Riglan: Perception 11+8). There are some treacherous cliffs, but we do see to the north that the side stream with waterfalls has cut a gulley into a wooded area, the stream winding across what turns out to be a relatively flattened canyon base, with lots of rocky outcrops and even one that the river cuts through - it's a rock arch. We can hear the wind making a tone that sounds almost like sighing, rather than whistling. So this Sighing Valley. Temo looks for magic (Arcana 5+3) and sees none. Riglan worries about manticores, but doesn't think they'd be in valleys - they're more mountains and cliffsides, not so much the valley floor (nature 12+3). Wild griffons prefer to keep high with high perches.

Riglan casts Pass again & we head north towards the stream, thinking we should be able to get there in about 30 minutes; less good stealth rolls but even so lowest works out as 21; we scramble down using the stream drops as an easier option than the full cliff height! We find out that it's 380ft (!). We do OK bouldering down, but the last waterfall turns out to be a plunge of about 140ft that's not very climbable. Nethza and Temo are especially not great with athletics. Maireagh asks if we trust her, and without really waiting, fiddles around with some shield mechanism, gets us to hold hands and shouts "jump!". The shield glows, and we find ourselves falling - slowly. (Feather Fall).

Aaaand now we're down here we can see in the distance that the tower *does* have a bridge, to the other side of the canyon. We see that the stream we followed turns into the canyon river, which flows South but not North. By crossing it, we'll have dry ground between us and the tower. We have some tree cover here, up to an escarpment. We track around between the escarpment base and the river until we a sort of boulder field (spires of rock, in various states of collapse) that provide lesser cover.

It's some time around 2-3pm.

We see more clearly now that it's not just a bridge connecting to land, but a kind of drawbridge, which is currently raised. We estimate a 20ft or so gap. We also see a sub-level of the tower, with what seem to be wooden platforms with large entrances hanging off the side of the tower. Some have wooden doors that are open, some closed. We guess that *this* must be how the big birds get in with their riders.

We decide to find a hiding spot - in practice, turns out to be back in the trees - and Riglan sends a fey hawk to investigate, with instructions to circumnavigate the tor base, look for ascent routes on the cliff, generally look like its hunting to avoid suspicion, etc. and get back so Riglan can see what it saw (ish) via telepathy. On return, we find that it saw strange non-humanoid large bleached skeletons in the rocks between us and the tower. There are no caves; the tor is technically climbable - 350ft, though, so it'd need a lot of skill and strength. The cliff itself is less sheer further south; it looks as if the river undercut parts of the canyon, which caused over time occasional collapses of the side which over time have build a gentler, if less stable slope. Near the tower though is almost overhanging. There are some small caves at the bottom there, though. A few trees near the river. It flies further south as it sees caves further away and Riglan had said "caves" :-) - it sees an area in the cliff side with lots of caves part way up, but the hawk got a sense of fear - something smelled wrong, griffons! - so it came back. It notices near the tower a wooden double door with stone accents forming the main entrance to the tower. The lower windows are large, arched, with stained glass; the level above's chapel windows are also stained glass. The level above has some windows boarded up, or possibly shuttered, hard to tell, but the boards the hawk sees are still behind glass. The topmost section's narrow slit windows are in two rows but small. Temo might squeeze through, but probably nobody else could. It flies up and briefly spots a hippogrif which scares it so it flies away quickly and this is what brought it back to Riglan so it could recall what it saw and Riglan could share the "mind's eye" view.

We discuss options, including deception to enter, honesty to enter and trying to find the (real) griffons in the canyon to see if we can convince them to help. We elect to try and get a decent rest first, hiding out in the trees near where we came in, but right up by the escarpment wall. If we have to battle any wild creatures, that'll help direct away sound and light from the gaze of the tower.

So, Riglan builds shelters. Tries to make the first look just like debris (survival 4+8) - it collapses when Maireagh tries to get in. He tries again, taking another hour or so (11+8) - Riglan finds a different spot and sets up a series of dead branches between trees, stacked up, like a lean-to. From the air it probably looks fairly innocuous and besides, by the time its morning we hope to be on the move. If we're very lucky, maybe it'll still be too windy to fly.

We are able to at least refill all our water. Clean but no fish. We settle in. Mushrooms and some tree nuts are around; we eat some dragon jerky and apples too. It's cold/uncooked food but still pretty good - no fires, again. As night sets in, the wind dies down and a mist rolls into the canyon. The sun leaves it quite early and the river releases moisture. The mist is in a layer floating about 3ft above the ground but is quite a thick layer - Temo is just below it, but everyone else including Riglan is within. As it darkens, lights appear all around in the trees - fireflies, dancing around over the river. Riglan hasn't seen that kind of thing in a while; it's almost comforting. Not much else for wildlife though; rodents of some kind scuttle around sometimes, the odd small bird but not many. It's quieter than we might expect, but not like the monastery which was devoid of life around it.

The fireflies are pretty - we don't set up any lights, not even low down / obscured like the previous night.

Watch o'clock. Dog assists as usual. Maireagh not so good, Netzha better, Temo and Riglan good; nothing unusual happens, to our surprise.

## DAY 62

The morning is cool and dewy, which is surprising given the arid area in general. The river's fog presumably causes this. Plants grow from the dew, which causes more mist and dew, and so-on; a positive cycle. Over time perhaps this wooded area might spread along the river banks in a more thick cover than it currently does. Riglan disassembles the shelters for fear of discovery.

The weather is colder than normal, perhaps contributing more to the dew; then again, it must be on the edge of autumn by now? Riglan isn't too sure. It's very still in the canyon. The fog has hung around - this gives us excellent cover near the river from prying eyes above. We head back along the escarpment as before, but this time look to keep along the river and aim for the south wall climb out on the easier slopes of the canyon.

We rope each other up to aid the climb. Athletics rolls - Maireagh 19, Nethza 16, Temo 17, Riglan... Nat 1 + 6. Again. Dog is 13 but has four legs. Riglan does stumble and pull people back a bit. He tries again (athl 19). We do get to the top of the canyon after a while. At this point we see air patrols are now flying - there's no way they won't have seen us climbing, even if they didn't see where we came from. We try to look like we know what we're doing and head confidently for the tower entrance.

We get to the bridge. We can't reach the door - about 50ft away with a drawbridge gap. We don't want to jump that as it might look like aggression. Riglan tries Druidcraft to make a noise like knocking about 30ft away from him; the mage hand has a similar range issue so can't knock either. Then Riglan remembers that there are patrols, so he waves to signal one to see if it'll come over. It does - a man riding a giant vulture.

"Please state your business! You've entered the Feathergail Society's private resort. This is a hunting lodge."

Temo says we've come from a battle with the Sacred Stone Monastery and have brought things that might be of interest from there. We know that the Feathergails have some kind of feud with them. Thought maybe we could trade. Temo: Persuasion 12+10. This seems to do the trick - we're told to pull on a cord and he flies away.

Riglan goes, "Oh. Right. There's a cord." He pulls it. We hear a faint bell ring sound from inside the tower, and see someone looking out of a window up to the circling vulture guard, who presumably signals that it's OK as the person moves away from the window and then the drawbridge lowers.

The doors at the end are open. A woman in blue and white half-plate with a silver and white cloak covered in massive white feathers stands there. "You may cross". We head over - no handrail, 300+ft drop, windy... We enter a 20-25ft x 40ft entranceway. A tapestry, chandelier, suit of armour, mosaic of silver winged eagle inset into marble floor. The lady says she's **Savra, current Castallan** of Feathergale Spire. We introduce ourselves. Temo starts repeating his short story. Riglan tries to watch & interpret the reaction; insight 8+5, not great. There's a sense of slight suspicion but it seems only momentary.

We mention during smalltalk how we approached, including "down the river" (insight 17+5) - a momentary flash of concern, but only briefly, from Savra; and again a hint of suspicion. The river reference specifically seemed to trigger that. Anyway, she offers hospitality and takes us up spiral stairs to a great hall (on level 2 of the 4 level tower), a semicircular space occupying half of the that floor of the tower with a large table. Chandeliers, statues, works of art (typically based around flying beasts with riders in some kind of glorious aerial combat), more mosaic.

Two other people are present in similar dress to Savra. They stand and nod as we come in. A young male half elf and a young female human. They head out to give us privacy, for whatever reason. A few people in blue and white more "common" clothes - robes, but not monk robes, more like city clothes, move in to clean up; some are dusting; just looking after things. We are offered a seat and take one. Riglan enquires about price - he's told they don't charge. It's a society thing - The Feathergail Society runs it. It's their 10th anniversary this evening.

We show her some of the things from the monastery, which she seems to assume are gifts despite prior mentions of trade and asks (not for the first time) if we'd like to stay for the night. We figure it's a fair trade (maybe?!) and get taken to a room on the same floor as the hall (so on level 2) with two pairs of bunk beds. We thank her, she starts to leave, but on the way out says they'll probably wait for the day patrol to return - around 5pm - before starting on (whatever it is) celebrations for the 10th anniversary around 6, to which we are invited. Off she goes.

Conspiratorial huddle! The celebrations may be a useful distraction. In the mean time Riglan tries the fey spider. Our window opens and he sends it outside, *down* and into one of the presumed-landing areas down into an open door on the below-lowest floor. Stealth 12+4. It seems to just be a kind of stable. Hippogrif inside, only small ish, 10x10ft. There's a central column with stairs, lots of supplies and another 11 stable pens, some empty and at least 6 with creatures within. The stairs only head upwards. Just stables down here - but large, 18ft high ceiling etc. - it's a big section of the tower.

Riglan calls the spider back out and upwards, checking nearby windows at each level. Level 3 - first window was shuttered, went sideways to next one, which was open - perception for spider only 11 - a room with two beds and a desk, some kind of thick curtain in the middle dividing the room like a privacy screen. Level 4 with slit windows - heads inside. Again, individual rooms.

Only two of the windows on L3 turn out at this time to be shuttered, and one of them had half the room open (privacy screen curtain) so we could see into the room from the adjacent window anyway. It just seems to be basically residential; from room to room the spider sees no evidence of cells, dungeons or other coercion.

At the very top of the tower, is a platform actually with some grass - a tended lawn - and some paths. A giant vulture is resting at one edge. A knight in a feather cloak is looking through a spyglass mounted on the side of the tower, looking back towards where we came from - towards the monastery. They may not have been flying yesterday, but this guy might well have seen us approaching. The spider sees no spyglass on the drawbridge side, just the monastery side.

In the middle it's almost a gazebo, stone, with a dome on top; the metal spire projects from this. Up close, it's an intricate, twisting design of metal, almost like a unicorn horn.

Riglan is looking at this and feels a shaking on shoulder. Temo is pulling him back as there's someone at the door. They're asking if we're thirsty - they can have the cooks prepare some tea. Riglan says that's very kind, yes please. It'll be served in the great hall. Riglan reconnects, thanks the spider and temporarily sends it back to the fey but holds the connection as long as he can just in case (up to 2 hours). We're served tea and baked treats. It's a nice place, that's for sure.

Back in the room - downtime. Riglan confirms via spider in remaining unseen-from-outside rooms that this place is just Feathergails, no prisoners. Otherwise, we kill time reading.

Eventually it gets to about 5pm and we hear loud noises as the air guard returns. Four riders. At around 6 there's a knock on the door and we're invited down to the main hall. We head out.

It's busy; four seats are saved along one side of the table so we sit. The dog has to wait in our side room. No shields or weapons allowed either, so we leave those. Eeek. Other knights in the room are not armed either. Arriving through the main doors - this is the VIP, we assume; gleaming white breastplate with blue detailing of a soaring eagle-like creature with four legs, white and gold feathers on the cloak, also no weapons or shield, sits at the head of the table. "The Thurl", we think, though we don't know what the title means. Everyone stands when he comes in so we do too. A lavish feast is brought. Reasonable rolls on insight/perception/performance whatever mean we keep up with decorum more or less, getting mostly the right cutlery and so-on!

After a while, the room is hushed and the servants (or whatever the blue/white robe people are) are sent out and The Thurl stands to give a speech. He welcomes everyone, including calling us out and thanking for our "rather unique gifts", with a trolley wheeled out with the stuff from the monastery. (Riglan insight 14+5, the speech is generally legit; it's shallow but there's no skirting of truth for our benefit). A toast is raised to 10 years and 10 years after, and so-on and so forth. We join in ("And thank you, **Thurl Merosska** for leading us on these wonderful hunts and securing us this beautiful keep").

As food is eaten, we listen on the chat (Riglan insight: 16+5). It sounds like the knights are not always here in such numbers - they're gathered due to the celebration in large numbers. Several of them seem to be catching up with each other, as they've not seen each other in a while. There's an air of social niceties of court about it; conversation stays shallow, they say lots of words without saying much at all. They don't even seem that interested in the answer. At least the food is good - the finest Riglan has ever had, albeit perhaps somewhat fancy for his taste.

Riglan plucks up courage to ask about the nature of the conflict between the monastery and Feathergails. There's fluff about disaffection, rural people, indoctrination, allegations of jealousy - not hiding wealth or nobility, they say, makes them easy targets. Lots of disaffection amongst lower classes especially after the war. He digs deeper, clarifying that it's not matter of religions or related philosophies; insight 15+5; he senses in the answer that the question is being somewhat evaded or treated as unimportant. It's a dislike of the topic rather than ambivalence. Riglan drops it.

There are four courses of food so far, with speeches between each. It's, well, frankly somewhat tedious for us, and we're not getting much (any?) information of substance. They seem to deride the Waterdeep Griffon Cavalry too; they're knights, not mere cavalry.

When he gets a chance, Temo tries to speak to the Thurl about "since they have such a good vantage point" the missing people we're trying to find. Deception 17+4, luckily. The Thurl has "no idea", just busy with the hunt and preparations. Temo doesn't get much insight (12-1) unfortunately and heads back to the table.

At around the 6th course, the doors fly open and someone runs in - "The manticore! It's on the wing, it's on the wing!" - the Thurl says, "Well, what are you waiting for? Ride!" to the room full of knights, and there is much excitement as people go running for weapons and suchlike. "The hunt is on!". The Thurl holds aloft a beautiful sapphire ring, saying, "A prize for the one that brings me the beasts head!". He looks to the four of us and offers us mounts too - oh cripes - Riglan says "OK", thinking it'd just be him but we've got four mounts. We grab our weapons from the room and are led down to the stables.

Four giant vultures. We are helped into the saddles. Riglan speaks to his vulture and tells it that we're novices, and if we do anything bad/wrong, please do tell *him* and he can pass it on. Nat 20+2 persuasion for beasts. But the vulture speaks strangely. It'll obey commands from the knights, but they're all under some kind of magical influence; they're not really acting of their own accord. They're not just trained mounts; there is a layer of magic control in place. Detect Magic; *all* mounts in the room have an enchantment on them. All the same aura. He also notices that the "servants" (non-knights) also have an evocation/transmutation kind of aura on tunics that they wear. The knights radiate a variety of magical types, not just from objects they hold, but they themselves appear to be spell casters.

Perception 10+8: As the doors are being opened to fly out, Riglan notices that the leather tunics have blue and white leather strips hanging off the back that look like decorations but that's where some of the magic comes from. He looks closer and sees that the leather tunics have an unusual emblem embossed - a downward pointing triangle with an arrowhead-like element above it, three prongs (like two abutted downward-pointing triangles, but the top one is open-topped with a vertical line up the middle). Insight 2 :-( + 5, so nothing there.

Just before we launch, Riglan shouts to Maireagh - "Manticores - evil? Or are we hunting an innocent beast?" - she says they're quite lethal and intelligent, but she's never met one. "Be careful of its tail!" - and we launch.

Ahead are 8 knights. They split into groups of 4 each, going to the sides of the canyon. We head South down the middle, heading for the rock arch, searching. Riglan: Perception 11+8. As we fly down we see a dark shape skirting the fog that's rolling out from the river again. We don't alert the knights. We are closing the gap. Riglan senses something whizzing through the air, and a spike hits him. Then another, badly. One misses. There's a roar and we see the manticore fly down into the fog. It's aiming for the arch. It's about 80ft away from him, the others 20ft behind. Temo shouts, "Are we trying to kill it?!" - Riglan wants to maybe talk - insight 2+5, he doesn't know if he can talk to it. He tries to get closer, tries shouting in beast, "You need to fly away low and quiet, 8 knights are hunting you". The manticore roars and keeps aiming for the gap. We follow. 50ft. Riglan tries to light it up with Faerie Fire, but it dodges.

Riglan shouts out, "I don't think it can understand me!" and lets his vulture get closer to see if it attacks again. It does. Two hits, one crit! Riglan's at 11hp, so he calls back, "Break off!" and starts to pull away, but Nethza is throwing bolts at it. Temo sees this and tries his luck. Temo throws a fire bolt. Riglan realises we're kind of stuck with this approach, and throws an ice knife which hits. We're through the rock arch and at that point it comes around to attack. It's aiming for Riglan, two miss, one hits, 9 damage. Riglan's at 2, so brings up the bear spirit to give himself a boost. The manticore shouts, "Evil beasts, hunters, begone from my valley, this domain is mine!" - it speaks Common. Riglan tries to tell it that we came for warning, but it argues back as we're hunting it. Riglan offers a distance healing spell and to make it invisible. It says it will only accept a deal - clear out the knights, hunt no more, so it can raise its children. Leave it alone.

Riglan thinks hard. This is a rare monster. It's not a beast, but it's part of the natural order of the world. It is an apex predator for this area. It is a ruthless hunter, a fierce killer and converses. Riglan says, "Clear out for forever? Or just for tonight?" - it replies with ambiguity, "We wish to be rid of them. This valley is ours." - Riglan shouts back, "All I can do is try; but they are powerful". Insight 19+5, the only way to get out of this would be to kill *all* the knights. All Riglan can do is say he's sorry, but we're not powerful enough - we just can't kill them. So the manticore attacks immediately, hitting Riglan for 11 - taking him to just 1.

At this, Nethza resumes attacking. Temo tries again. He uses his magic missile wand, which kills the manticore. We land. Maireagh runs over as Riglan staggers off the vulture. Riglan is crying. She gives him some healing (11hp, so he's at 12). Riglan sits down on the ground with his head in his hands. Riglan asks Temo to fly up and get attention of the knights, but Maireagh brings out the book - "We *are* supposed to bring its head back..." - Riglan asks if there is at least anything we could *use* to justify this, not just cutting off its head. The tail has spikes that could be useful for something. The wings are possible but very difficult. We go for the tail. Temo and Maireagh (dex 16, advantage 16 again, + 5). The spikes are quite deeply embedded, so they're launched out / propelled somehow. It's complicated. We do well, though; and even then manage to harvest both wings (high rolls). Macabre but useful all the same.

Nethza goes to get the knights and they come along, and help out getting the head. They're very complimentary. The manticore has plagued them for a couple of years.

The knights head back but Riglan wants to try and bury what's left, so the mate doesn't find the horrible mauled remains. He does his best to dig a decent grave and covers it as best he can. Then we fly back as well. He feels really awful. Maireagh helps with the burial and Nethza tries to make him feel better. In the end, it just went wrong. There wasn't a deal we could strike and we were forced to finish what we started by chasing it. Nethza says that the only way we could've avoided this was to not be here at all. But she wouldn't have gone to the monastery but gut feel, and yet we did and freed the slaves.

Nethza points out that the creature was evil; pointing out that we were its slaves right then. We either would do what it said, or it would kill us. We had to do its bidding. Riglan's alignment *almost* shifts to chaotic good, but this keeps him centred for now. He's struggling with it. He does rationalise that the manticores would be at risk of unbalancing the valley by multiplying, so even though it's a nasty business, from a neutral and balance perspective, perhaps getting rid of one - when at least one more, plus cubs remain - is not such a bad thing.

We tie the head and fly back. Riglan ascertains from his **vulture that it carries him because it was told to, but were it given the choice, it probably would not. The nature of interaction is definitely strange**.

At the tower, there is much merriment. They actually seem truly enthusiastic, rather than their tedious, practiced decorum prior. A *second* celebration is called for! Wine and brandy is poured in the hall, along with wheels of cheese from which people carve pieces. The food is actually mostly untouched; Temo wants to pocket some, and is helping himself but finds servants (or whatever) offering to help wrap things in wax paper. Well, we have even more cheese now.

The Thurl presents the promised ring in exchange for the head. Well, we certainly don't want a trophy head. They will preserve and mount it. He hands us the ring and shakes Riglan's hand. He talks at some length about their trials with the manticore before, its hit-and-run hiding tactics and how it had eluded him; but they aren't in the business of flushing things out of lairs, so always waited to hunt it if out in the open.

The other knights are more conversant now, asking more about the monastery. We describe things but only talk about finding Renwick's tower locked, omitting how we later got inside. The questions seem genuine in interest, but they get quite probing and we decide to use Riglan's injuries as an excuse to call it a night a head to the room. As we leave, the Thurl congratulates us again and says he'll see us in the morning after a well-deserved sleep. We overhear that there's a change of guard; two guard at night (the two we saw sleeping) and others going down to tend to the "stables".

Riglan sends a fey bat, asking it to explore canyon wall cave areas to the South, to the maximum distance it can get to in about 60-90 minutes there and back. We then take a short rest in the room. When the bat returns, it reports it just found various empty caves or caves with beasts. Perhaps evidence of tribes of other humanoids in the valley though - evidence of primitive encampments.

It's after midnight and we risk mistakes by trying to press on, merely from lack of sleep, if not physical exertion after most of a day spent in the room hanging around! We elect to risk going to sleep - but we'll run watches, just keeping an eye on the door and window.

**On Temo's watch, he senses the sling's warning**. He tries to wake the group! Initiative is rolled. The door is thrown open and a knight is there, sword drawn, in full armour. Temo fires. As battle starts to progress and the one closest to the door is taken down, Nethza gets outside and shouts to warn us that there are a *lot* of knights attacking. Knights to start with, but then someone new we haven't seen runs up - no armour, no weapons, blue and white robes; starts fighting monk style. Very fast. Seems to be a caster too - Thunderwave happens - against Maireagh, the dog and Nethza all caught in the cone; all save, so there's damage but they don't move. The room's door shatters and a door behind Nethza into the adjacent room is also blasted apart.

Riglan finally wakes up enough to act. He gets closer to the door to see the mess in the corridor beyond and conjures four beasts. He gets giant wasps, which aren't hardy but at least move fast and can fly over people. The bear totem will help a little but they won't take many hits - at least they might draw fire for a moment. Sevra enters the fray, throwing spells. The Thurl suddenly portals in with misty step and attacks Maireagh. The battle rages; we take a fair few hits and one of Riglan's wasps goes down, but the other three cling on and between us all do plenty of damage. We take out our attackers completely, in a very tight-quarters battle with everyone crammed together pretty much.

There's a moment of "WTF just happened?!" followed by a hasty search for clues in the pile of bodies (Temo: Investigation 15 (yay!) + 6). He finds:

* Thurl Moroska - a potion in a pouch along with an ornate key with feather motifs around the handle. Beautiful armour - can make out that the breastplate has the 'arrow' style design carved into it. White & gold feather cloak. A fancy ring similar to the one we won; an amulet that seems to be platinum, decorative; polished, white leather gloves. We take all of that except the heavily-damaged breastplate.
* Savra - cloak is badly damaged. Scale mail also damaged. Some jewellery, but little else; a pair of gemstone earrings; a ring with gemstone inlaid. Riglan kind of liked Savra somehow, so we take just the ring, not the earrings.
* Monk - nothing of note except two gold bangles which we take.
* All the knights have the cloaks but everything is damaged to some degree; there's a fair bit of jewellery though - they were wealthy - we grab a bunch of stuff almost at random (dice roll) for around 22 platinum worth of trinket ("miscellaneous jewellery")

Riglan thanks the wasps and dismisses them. We hastily grab our things - not much pack, we were expecting trouble - and look in the main; empty at this moment. Up stairs. As we approach we hear movement - patter of feet, doors etc. from downstairs. A head pops up at the bottom of the stairs, looks surprised, they run back down. It was one of the "servants". He's yelling "wake up, wake up everyone!". We swiftly head up the stairs - clearly a clock is ticking. Four doors around a central column. Up one more, to level 4. Another four doors, same configuration. Wind above. Temo pokes his head up to check the roof (Stealth 14+11). Two guards, no vultures. Meanwhile Riglan (perception only 4 + 8) hears a rattling sound, loud doors, banging and slamming. Sounds like the doors from the hunt. He shouts, "They're trying to launch! Trying to run!" - oops, the two guards turn and see Temo - who shouts "So much for stealth - two guards" - he runs down, but in the confusion (3 failed dex saves) everyone else goes prone (Temo tangles under Riglan's legs pretty much). He shouts "great hall - more space and we won't get thrown off the roof!"

Riglan falls into Maireagh who falls into Nethza, on top of the dog, on the floor of L4. A door opens. **Standing there is someone in blue and black with huge black feathers over a midnight blue cape**. Studded leather underneath. Wears a helmet with black and midnight blue accents, with kind of "head of bird" styling. Well, that's new. They smack their hand against the wall and shout "something's gone wrong!" then casts Dust Devil right on top of us, before retreating back into a room and behind one of the dividing curtains.

It gets really crowded really quickly. Maireagh is in melee in the room with the priest pretty quickly and after a failed attempt to use shocking grasp, it Misty Steps away across the hall. Maireagh runs out of the room and casts Thorn Whip at the priest - "You are not getting away from me you slippery eel" (!) - and would've hit but Shield comes up. Maireagh is a "little bit" angry and runs up into melee again, commanding the dog to attack (no advantage). Nat 20! But only 7 damage due to bad rolls there. One of the guards from the roof still stuck on the stairwell has been using Gust and tries that on Nethza, but she holds her ground (strength save 14).

More battle. The priest is backed into a corner and tries Shocking Grasp but even on Maireagh's metal armour, misses; Maireagh hits in retaliation and the dog finishes the job. Surprisingly, then, the priest goes down. Nethza meanwhile is surrounded by knights, with more coming up the stairs; she tries attacks but can't quite make it. One from up the stairs does an acrobatic jump right down in front of Temo and despite the dog intervening is about to hit, but Temo throws up Shield and protects against both attacks. He attacks back. Tries a door behind him to sneak back - but it's locked.

A knight trying to attack Nethza hits her frost armour and is hurt badly, gets scared and runs away - "She's a devil" - Riglan's very annoyed at that and shouts "Oi, fuck (!) you, coward!" - an initiate now runs up. "You cowardly knights - the power of the Howling Hatred will power our attack into the hearts of our enemies!" - wind swirls around as it throws a dagger at Nethza, the wind propelling it (advantage). Hits, for a little damage, the armour now spent.

Temo sees the initiate below, leaps out and lands down stabbing. He kills the initiate but can see another one coming up the stairs - he disengages and runs back to his party. The initiate below throws a dagger at the dog, which hits (6 piercing). The dog retaliates for 6 also. There's some to and fro. Riglan shouts down, "This is nuts! Why did you attack us?!" - persuasion nat 1, **FFS**. Riglan watches Temo run down and attack, finishing the job. Temo shouts "They're running away!". He comes back up the stairs. "Do we chase?". For a minute Riglan thinks not, but remembers that the prisoners might still be around - so we run down, as fast as we can down to the basement level.

Riglan's faster, leaving his party behind somewhat. He gets to the stables level in time to see a last knight mounting a hippogrif and leap off the landing. Riglan runs to the edge and in the moonlight can see (disadv perception 9+8) it is flying to join a few other dots in the distance, all heading across the canyon and flying back in the direction from which we originally came. Riglan can't see much, and figures that the griffons might be able to carry more than one person but the vultures couldn't (insight 12+5). He doesn't try and send e.g. an owl to pursue.

The stables are empty. Must've been quite a few acolytes gone. We can't see where they're going - Riglan runs up, past his party on the stairs, shouts "I need the telescope!" - and gets up to the roof, then tries to find the fleeing griffons. He notes that telescope is pointing in the same cross-canyon direction it was before and looks in it without moving it. Perception 8+8. He sees the crevasse with the waterfall that we came from, with some vague larger shapes. He fiddles with the telescope to try and get a better view (dex check 10+1). He seems some of the griffons and vulture flying in a rough formation towards the gully. Each seems to carry one rider only. A few are missing. They're kind of vanishing down there. There were 11. The late 12th flies into view. So they're landing somehow down there. They tip and fly into the gulley, when he watches more closely, then out of view.

The rest of the party comes up... Maireagh has a spell or two left... It'd still be 90 mins to get across the valley. Maireagh isn't keen. They're flying and we have to climb up a waterfall to get to them (140ft).

OK, so, we go back to the idea of searching top down in the tower for any clues or information. Level 4, try the doors and search the rooms. We focus on L4 on the one locked door as the others are unlocked. Temo tries to unlock it but cannot. Investigates but finds no traps etc. and then we remember that key on the Thurl - and of course it unlocks easily, albeit with an unusual double-opening motion (it was very hard to pick). We guess, then, that this is the Thurl's room.

Fireplace. Large four poster bed with satin drapery, writing desk, ornate closet, tapestry of the tower itself and a chest. On the desk is a smart cylindrical leather case (Sky Write and a letter). Everything inside is unlocked. Clothing in the closet, chest has treasure and there are two scrolls, four sets of fine clothing.

* Four sets fine clothing
* Two scrolls of Beast Bond (Riglan)
* Scroll of Sky Write (Temo, Maireagh, Riglan)
* Six gemstones of about 50gp each
* Letter - in Common. "**My loyal Moroska**, we are pleased to hear about the outcome of your altercation with the Black Earth Cult and we praise you for the capture of one of their prisoners. This noblewoman from Waterdeep had an interesting tale to tell and we enjoyed interrogating her; they are of no more use now. Keep an eye on the monastery. **By the hand of Her Minstrel Windharrow, your beloved queen Aerisi Kalinoth.**"

Maireagh suggests that Riglan helps her unmount the telescope and tripod from the roof. Could be useful. So we do that and take it.

We pull up the drawbridge, close all the stable doors and rest in the Thurl's room, locked; we're spent, we need the rest, maybe we can get more of a view tomorrow. Perhaps there's still a chance to rescue the delegation, thought the note we found certainly sounded grim.

## DAY 63

We wake up at around 9, quite late given the night exertions. The first thing we do is have a proper look around the tower. We notice some inconsistencies; the tower looks old but is nothing like e.g. Summit Hall or the Monastery architecture and stonework. Not dwarven. The tapestry in the Thurl's room is itself old and woven into the bottom are words in the weird old form of Common in some of the books we've picked up. "The Gleaming Tower Of The Knights Of The Silver Horn, Forever Vigilant, Forever Watching And Guarding".

Riglan checks out the gully using the spyglass, rested on the tripod. He can see the rapids and waterfall, and though it is hard to see the river/stream sometimes, it does rise up until it emerges kind of at plain level, with no water near the top. There's a spring or similar that must've shifted downwards. The top looks like it once had a waterfall but that's dried or moved. He notices movement; a robed figure, perhaps, moving down, following down the gully.

We head down and Temo looks around on the ground floor, finding a small cupboard-like room which is used to raise and lower the drawbridge. It takes two people. We head out and down the way we came up last time. It takes ages, and after some debate we decide to go back the way we came in lieu of any better ideas to avoid being seen from the gully. We see signs of people; an old campfire, remnants of hunting; we reach the woods around midday and pause there for some food.

Riglan: perception only 6+8 - 14. We'd assume the valley was uninhabited before, but know now that it's not and we see clear evidence of people living here. Riglan wonders if they could help; we investigate an old camp that we find nearby. Looks a bit hunter camp-ish (investigation 13-1). Extinguished fire and bed room marks. He tries to track the party (survival 11+8). About 7 sets of tracks leave in all directions - and some return. An older set lead into the camp site with a much newer exiting in the same direction. Riglan surmises that they based themselves here and hunted around, with this in-out pair probably the way to find where they came from. We head that way.

The trail heads down towards the stream in a fast flowing section; we paddle through and pretty easily pick up the trail again. 3 sets of footprints, quite large and heavy. Riglan: Another crappy role, nature 9+2. Large dog footprints perhaps. That sounds like gnolls, and we were warned there were some around. That warns us not to follow further.

We figure we might as well, then, have a look at the waterfall and see what we can find. Is it even climbable? It's pretty much 140ft of straight up. There are occasional ledges, but it's pretty dramatic. We feather-falled last time; doing this backwards doesn't look feasible. We hide out below in the trees.

The hawk is gone for a good hour, Riglan starting to get nervous that it might have met a sticky end. It does return, fortunately. Telepathically, Riglan has the hawk once again convey, as best a hawk can, its memories. Above the waterfall, Riglan sees the smaller falls and streams here and there that we travelled down before. There are a few caves, some of which are just shallow hollows. It found no signs of life, no proper caves, nothing, until it found the source of the spring. There's a big set of huge boulders that it flows from beneath, via a fissure.

We try to find some way to climb out, heading South largely because we're on that side of the stream. We stick closer to the cliffs on this side, looking for a way out and eventually reach where the river carves around and crossed onto this side. We can see about a mile further down before the canyon curves away, and there doesn't seem to be any let-up. Sigh. We went the wrong way. We go back North, to the gully waterfall base again; cross the waterfall; and head north now, into the valley area without a river.

There are way more rock spires here; also some giant vultures, perhaps a colony. Chancing that these are carrion creatures and less likely to attack a live party - even though we're small - we move into that area to get a clearer view of the cliffs and so-forth, still looking for an exit. The cliffs are sheer without even the crumbling areas we'd seen to the south. Lots of bones; a huge collection. Human-sized skeletons in amongst smaller creatures. We deduce that these creatures were thrown from a great height - we figure most likely Feathergale Spire itself - and ultimately dragged here by the vultures since they roost here. While these bodies aren't fresh by any means, they're picked clean so have been here weeks, but no more - based on clothing fragments etc. - than a few years. Only the humanoids show signs of shattering from a fall; the dead animals look likely to be natural causes.

Netzha wonders who these people might have been. Temo and Maireagh investigate - looking at bits of armour, clothing and so-on. No signs of the delegation (the bones are too old anyway), nor (Temo: Investigation 15+6) monk robes or masks. Some were armoured. None are in the white and blue of the Feathergales. So it's just a mixture. Temo does confirm that the clothing is "current". Last few years. Not wealthy; no noble gear. Looks like commoners.

It seems we've largely wasted the day on a fruitless search for an exit. We camp down where did before, in trees; again, no fire.

Watch goes well. Temo warns Riglan that he'd seen tall shapes moving around nearby. Top heavy, dog head silhouette. Skulking on the other side of the river. So Riglan is particularly alert. He doesn't see these creatures, but does hear dog or hyena-like noises and communications; thinks he sees light in the distance once; way off in the distance hears a skirmish of some sort - at which he tries the spyglass; some avian creatures seem to be swooping down and apparently attacking the gnolls. It's South, but more into the plateau rather than hugging the cliffs.

## DAY 64

Riglan wakes his party and recounts the weird battle. The avian creatures were somewhat humanoid; they flew south afterwards, apparently content with driving them away.

We elect to head south towards the rock arch eventually, to see if we can figure out where these things came from. We head close to the rock arch, after going over the plateau. Takes around 30-60 minutes. We do find the camp where the gnolls were and see arrows stuck into the ground. They look reasonably well made. Certainly not crude. Polished bone tips. Temo picks one up; they're extremely light.

We cross the river (via ritual walk-on-water) which has become wider and deeper here somehow - further below-surface upwellings or hidden contributory springs perhaps? - with more greenery as we continue along. About half an hour later. There's an undulation to the surface, where 20ft-ish rolling ridges are in strange whorl patterns that seem almost like a fingerprint. Signs of habitation here and there. Much bigger trees here; a few of the rock pillars, but smaller, maybe 100-120 ft, 15ft diameter. Riglan climbs one of the taller trees to get a view. Struggles a bit but gets up there. There are huts atop the mesas, one per pillar. Clay walls. Some trees have apparent structures in them too; wooden with rope. Riglan thinks it looks quite homely!

A head pops out from a door and looks over. He realises a few more are looking. A hawk's head! One even wears glasses.

Riglan calls down to his party to say we've got company, then tries saying, "Uuuh, hello, my name is Riglan!" in both common and Sylvan.

A door opens and one of these creatures emerges. Arms, legs and wings; one flies towards Riglan and hovers, holding a spear. "You have arrived in our village. Are you traveller, or invader?" in Common. Riglan says, "Oh! *Definitely* a traveller." The creature turns and calls back, in some kind of birdsong like bassy language, which he can't speak. It's not beast or Sylvan. Three more fly, also spears. We all descend to the ground.

"**I am the Guard of the Day. My name is Kiroopa**. This is our ancestral home. We keep an eye on this region." Riglan explains briefly what brought them here. He's told they should speak to the Elder. They lift him off the ground - along with everyone else, though it clearly takes effort - to the largest tree in the area. A house is built into the branches. The upper branches help form the roof. An older female is there, wearing a feather cloak, somewhat withered looking wings. She welcomes us - "**My name is Merannaya**." Riglan is very complimentary about the village (though the platform they're on creaks under our weight, so we're being careful!).

They've been in the valley 100s of years, since the Knights Of The Silverhorn were defeated by Uruthukrpt orc kingdom. Their species is aarakocra. She asks "Are you in a rush?" - "no, I don't think so" - "Ah, I have not had outside guests in a while". She makes a sort of tea from leaves and fruit, heating the pot with magic - not using fire.

We talk about the Feathergales. It's a cover for the elemental cult of evil air. Literally, evil air. They serve the evil prince of air - a diety. The "queen" we read about is a higher ranking cult member, a priestess perhaps, but there isn't a real queen there at all. There hasn't been since the kingdom of Besilmir... She mentions that **the entrance to the kingdom of Besilmir, to Tyar-Besil, is in the gully**. She thinks the air cult is hiding in there.

The tower was built by the Knights of the Silverhorn as a watch tower to keep an eye on the entrance to Tyar-Besil. She isn't sure what was found in there millennia ago; what needed to be hidden. She asks Maireagh as a dwarf what is there - Maireagh doesn't know; we didn't even know anything was hidden. "So why did the mighty kingdom of Besilmir disappear? Did they fall? Were the conquered? No. Why was the first kingdom to live on the surface wiped from history? It happened after they established Tyar-Besil, and the Halls of the Hunting Axe are the only things left at the surface to remind us of this past."

We chat a little about the history, and eventually they agree to airlift (!) us onto the top of the canyon, on the Eastern side (the plateau) at around midday. We aim to make our way back to the gully to try and find this elusive entrance; we walk gently uphill, aiming for the stream/river's source. At that point it's an abrupt end, with about a 40-50ft drop at the shallowest point. We use a rope to get down, and recover the rope after - Nethza could fly back up and tie it again to climb out.

So we're down in the gully where the water flows over stones. We're going to have to search. Riglan figures a lot of creatures have gone in and maybe out of what we figure is probably a single entrance, but this gully is long - almost a mile. He decides to follow his nose! Warns his party & turns into a Cave Badger to try and sniff them out (perception adv. 9 & 13 + 8). After about half an hour, he knows for sure that the various giant creatures have been here, at least, but that's just the overall gully. It's not pinpointed. Riglan starts to try and find where it's stronger, and gets to an area where the gully shape tends to trap the air a bit so of course it's smellier. But that's interesting anyway. Temo investigates a bit (investigation, only 7 + 6). It's flatter; not just big chunks of rock with water flowing beneath; some soil and earth. Sees footprints - large, claw-style. Not gnolls. Riglan tries to track this (cave badger but his stat, Survival 17 + 8). The prints don't go anywhere though; they landed, wandered around and either took off or vanished. He notices a multitude of bootprints in a patch of earth, but also all over the place. Numerous and wide ranging. Riglan tries to track some of the footprints now, rather than the claws (Survival: 15 + 8, some good rolls today for all this). Two sets particular seem heavier set and the boot prints are easier to follow. Eventually the earth region runs out and becomes just rocky again, but mud has been tracked onto rocks on the other side of the stream, carrying on up for a while. We follow that (so now on the North-ish side, going back uphill). 80-100ft or so later the footprints dry out. There is however a clear "easiest way to go", not a path per se but just the obvious way to go, which we continue along for another 10 minutes slowly, checking as we go for any openings, cracks or whatever. We actually end up back near the start again, at the emergence of the stream.

Riglan looks hard. We must be missing something - some angle, a place to stand, or whatever. Perception only 5 + 8. The river, the blocks of stone... The group retraces steps; no footprints; Riglan tries to look with Detect Magic, around this same area up and down, left and right; there's a weak aura of magic - layers of thin weak auras, transmutation school, over a particular stone slab. The biggest one. Temo looks (perception 7 + 9). Nope. Netzha. Perception 1 - well she's bored. Maireagh is very over it, following a f*cking cave badger around on a wild goose chase for an hour or so. She's just looking at the path and from a dwarven perspective, it's an obvious path to her; it stops right at the stone slab. Riglan's seeing layer upon layer of magic, residual, including a recent one. We consider our spell options but can't figure out much, but then Maireagh suggests there might be writing somewhere. Riglan looks around (Perception 11+8) - there might be some weathered runes up high; at a glance it seems just weathering, but looking more carefully, these particular markings look too straight and even in height. That's enough of an excuse for Maireagh to blow a spell on Levitate. She sees Dwarven runes, which she reads out. When she does so, part of the rock wall in front just kind of pushes in, from a previously invisible join, in the shape of a very well carved door. It pushes in, then slides to one side, to reveal an entranceway. Intense wind and *old* air blows out. Underground air. It's not dusty, also not cold; warm and dry. Not musty either. Like it comes from much further away. Not the same as the weird hot dry wind we've experienced sometimes. After the pulse of transmutation magic, Riglan detects nothing much inside as his spell is fading.

We go inside.

Riglan casts Darkvision & Temo puts on the goggles. We're in a room carved into the rock with perfectly smooth sides and a roof that has a 45 degree cut corners making it into a sort of angled arch. Before the door behind closes and we can't see colours, we see inlaid with gold geometric lines and patterns at about Riglan's hip height, about a foot thick, all the way along the walls.

We move down this corridor/room, for about 100ft before it turns into a set of stairs that descend. We follow. About a half an hour later, we're still descending and wonder if we're doing the right thing; the air is somehow flowing more. Riglan wonders if this is a magic trick but nobody can say for sure. We decide to sit & Riglan sends a fey owl; after about an hour, Riglan just knows his familiar has died (Arcana 13-1 on DC 10). So there is *something* down there... We elect to continue our descent. About another half hour, we finally do reach the stairwell bottom with a tunnel ahead. The stairs must've descended maybe a full mile; straight, 10ft wide, no deviations. Amazing engineering.

Same sort of tunnel as before. 10ft wide, 16ft tall. We press on. After another 10 minutes or so, it opens out into what seems to be a huge natural cavern via another few steps that widen out onto a platform with a balcony and crenelations, the cavern stretching well away beyond our vision. We have no way to know the size, but it's more than 60ft left, right or above as we see no edges or roof. Strong winds are moving around the space. As we start to descend along the path we're following, we see some distance lights and get a sense of scale. This is an underground city - and it is inhabited.

We follow the path for only 100ft or so and approach some kind of castle. The lights are behind the castle walls. There are people walking along the top of the walls patrolling (perception 16+8). Maybe 6 on the left and 4 on the right. Humanoid, not dwarves but nothing much else can be made out. We're only about 60ft away from the wall (limit of darkvision) but in darkness ourselves.

Suddenly realising we should be stealthy, but we aren't, Riglan (Dex save 10 + 1) gets hit by a wall of air (4 points damage) and a horn is blown. Ahead is a 20ft tall, 15ft ish wide huge double gate, we're on a 20ft wide causeway with drops either side and can't see the bottom, there's similar ledge running around the base of the castle walls and our pathway widens out a bit there.

Realising how exposed we are, we hastily retreat back into the tunnel - just don't want those unknown drops around us and a bit more control over how people approach. Behind us, we hear sounds of people moving around, probably on the ramparts. Riglan sends a bat (100ft telepathy range plus 60ft blindsight), staying connected - at first it flies down into the short length of deep drop either side of the bridging path, and there is detects what **Riglan realises (perception 18+8) is the very grim, sad sight of the dismembered, dumped bodies which judging from size and number would fit with the rest of the Mirabar delegation.** Even with the bat's limited radar-based blindsight, we can see enough to know that no embers of life remain there.**
**
**
**
***_We're too late_***.

Trying to evade detection, the bat flies up; it's the very limit of range to see the top of the walls; some people standing looking, indistinct conversation; sounds like people aren't sure about something, perhaps debating if anyone did see us; then the bat feels gusts of wind and above the gate tower clear wing beat noises and a strange cawing as a *wyvern* carrying a rider turns up and the gate guards talk to them.

As the bat flies about trying to "act natural" we deduce that the roof is out of sight, but only a few feet further above that - maybe 80ft up. There are bits of wall and natural rock buttresses projecting out that the castle is built into, which explains why it's built where it is. A quite strange natural formation that happens to have captured these large pockets of air.

After a while, the wyvern and rider fly away from us, back into the castle or whatever it is back there. We wonder what it is that we're even seeing; where is this? Tyar-Besil? Temo: History 9+3 on the book we skimmed; we know it's underground, so this could be it, but it could also be something else.

Riglan asks the bat to fly in and see what it can see. It's out of range as it does this and we have to wait. We have a conversation about what to do next. While the party would support Riglan because of their connection, he gets the feeling that they think it's certain death. Speaking of which - at that point the bat connection drops; it has been discovered and killed too.

Riglan realises he's no choice - "...we have a lot of stairs to climb".

We are forced to retreat. It takes around 90 minutes, with plenty of stops. At the top, we find the door is still open, so we exit into the gorge. It's evening, maybe 5-6pm, sun going down. We make a bee line towards the Dessarin River, for as long as we can stomach the walk, looking for a camp site as we get properly tired. We're currently up on a lower hill that the stream/river gorge cuts down into, and continue on ridges as best we can for speed. Riglan survival 18+8; we get across to a hill we were previously on. Some trees and so-on; options to camp. The weather is odd. High clouds skittering across the sky quickly, implying stormy weather high. A fiery sunset, dulling to a deep twilight blue, everything in motion. Riglan, perception 6+8. A hill to the east shows smoke and fire. It's a big fire. The smoke is actually part of what we thought were clouds - it's been raging for a while. It's relatively close, and Riglan has one shot at getting an owl to it, so tells it to fly out and back, to report. While it's gone, we set up a camp. No tents or unpacking, but we do light a fire - it's not like it'd stand out. Riglan rests, rather than foraging; the owl will take at least an hour.

The owl returns. It's maybe 7-8pm or so. A very strange sight. The hill is kind of conical. Small campfires set all along one side, many camp sites. Lots of people. At the top, some kind of ~50ft tall tower with crumbled keep walls; some kind of scaffolding on the tower and an outbuilding as if it those, at least, are being repaired, with a courtyard in front, where a few people are dressed in robes with staffs tending to some kind of 20-25ft high structure of some kind that looks humanoid, made of wood, that's on fire. They patrol around it and seem to check on it, feeding fuel to it. We know this fire has been burning for a while as we've seen the smoke for ages. Yet this thing hasn't collapsed. The owl is confused. Owls are smart. Lots of animals there too - *around* the bonfires. Bears, elks, with dire wolves a little distance out but nearby, maybe 7 separate fires, with 2-3 tents around each too.

It notes that campfires are only on the gentler hillside facing us, but not on a rocky other side. Riglan thanks the owl and dismisses it, and we have some food while keeping a distant eye on the fires...

...and then remember we have spyglass now. Facepalm.

* First campfire Riglan sees, four people around. One gets up and starts dancing, appears to be admonished by someone else and sits down.
* To the left, a fire but no people until two walk into view. One kicks some dirt at the campfire. They look big and hairy (!). Perception 12+8. The one closer to the campfire seems to have blood around its mouth. They're just very hairy human males.
* Left again. A very large brown bear is sat on its haunches next to a tent. Three people, two dressed in red leather armour with green accents and armed with bows - rangers maybe? - the other in a brown robe with hood pulled back, thick cloak, wooden twisted wooden staff...

...Riglan drops the spyglass down, ears up, sadness of the dead delegation forgotten momentarily, gets super excited - "They're druids! They're druids! We should go!" - we put the fire out (to some chagrin from the others) and walk. It'll take nearly two hours. Riglan doesn't apologise, he's just all excited.

As we get closer, walking down our hill then start back up the hill with the fires, we can see the camp fires more closely. People are walking around on the hillside apparently foraging; there are wooded areas lower. We don't know how we missed this huge fire at the hilltop. We never saw this hill from this angle before emerging from the tunnels; and/or perhaps it wasn't lit then; we don't know.

A female human comes up and greets us. "Oh. Late evening. Are you lost, travellers?!" Riglan says he's a druid and is asked what circle he is in; he says Shepherd, but also shows the Emerald Enclave pin. She doesn't recognise the pin, but she says she's with the **Circle of Wildfire**. They're here for the Rites of the Wicker Giant, as possible initiates. They invite us to their campfire. It's the leftmost, lowest on the hill, a good 200ft from the summit.

The lady announces herself as **Fariya**, along with mid-30s female druid **Iniri (also wildfire)**, dark skinned male druids **Varigo** (**stars**) and fractionally less darker skinned **Mahoon** (**moon**) - Varigo has travelled from a very long way away. Same circle except for Varigo, but not from the same area. They'd heard rumours of rites being done and people met up, mostly by chance. They say this is the Circle Of The Scarlet Moon. They're restoring the tower and have the Rites Of The Wicker GIant, a fire rite, which their druidic circle is particularly interested in. But apparently so far they've been a bit standoffish.

The two guys go off and tend to two giant elks that they have with them for a while. The girls invite us for tea. Riglan has a sinking feeling at "Circle of Scarlet Moon" plus the fire and being standoffish - it all sounds a bit familiar, a cult, a keep, an elemental aspect...

They've been told that if enough people take part in the region, they can all channel their power into the creature and restore balance to the region. They mention extreme weather events - flooding, in particular, in the Delimber Vale. Varigo had in particular followed portents in this direction, after wild events - flooding, forest fires in one area; but parched areas and hurricanes in others. Never seen anything like it. The druids have been approached by cities to find answers. He followed the stars here, so this ritual "must be the answer". He points up at the stars. "My signs tell me it's here."

Riglan asks if he can tell them a story. Tea is handed out. Riglan talks of the elements clashing and being unbalanced; the earth cultists, the air cultists. Maireagh has the books she can pull out to show as some evidence. None of the people we are with know about it. They do mention that there's perhaps a secret order of druids - the Emerald Enclave might be able to help. They also say that their elks warned them that only four other people are trustworthy - the others aren't, the elks argue - and they point me at their campfire, higher up and smaller, but at the edges. Gariena, they say; she'll be playing a fiddle. She's one of the four (they're in scattered camps).

We descend out of the firelight, track around the hill more in the tree line and come back up to get to Gariena's fire on the fringes. As we do this (Riglan: Perception **20** + 8), Riglan stumbles across a freshly killed deer carcass - brutally killed, neck ripped out; bites fit dire wolves. Yet it wasn't eaten and it was a brutal killing; the deer died with its neck ripped out, gasping. We suspect lycanthropes.

We hurry towards **Gariena's** fire. As we approach, we're told not to come closer by two sprites. Declare your intentions! Temo smooth talks (14+10 persuasion) and we are allowed to approach. We suddenly realise that there was quiet fiddling music playing from the tent mostly by the moment where it stops; someone emerges. She says, "Please approach". She's Elven, apologising for the sprites, looks young, slightly green skin (wood elf). Only about 5ft 1, if that. Gossamer lily-white and pale green embroidered cloak, like veins on a leaf. Holds a white, violin-like instrument and a bow. She describes the sprites as her travelling companions since her childhood. **Flix and Aphid**. (She's Circle of Dreams).

While we tell the story, she mentions that she's been here 3 days; doesn't know of any rituals that take 3 days to prepare and she's never heard of it, yet she knows a lot about magic. She's more than 200 years old, despite her looks; a druid for more than a century. Never heard of this rite. We mention the deer, too; she gets Flix & Aphid to cast an illusion of her being still at the fire, and we head down as she wants to see it. She's shocked by the kill. We go looking for a glen - Riglan, survival 12+8; we find one - moonlight - full moon! - and she parts the earth to create a grave, we lay it to rest, and she causes a field of daisies to grow over the body as it sinks down into the earth as she says some kind of nature prayer in Elven.

Riglan says, "That was very beautiful".

Gariena mentions she's from the Kryptgarden Forest as we discuss the mess we seem to be in. She goes back to her camp, agreeing on a signal to make the noise of an Axe Beak (!) three times to call for aid. We return to Iniri's camp and everyone catches up. She then points to the other three, but they're on a main path leading up to the keep. On the way up on the left, is the lycanthrope camp; further up - but not far, and on the right - is the site with the remaining 3. As Riglan looks over, he notes that another nearby fire, with the brown bear sat, as its two tents facing where he is; two humans are stood in front of the fire looking directly at us. They wear normal looking robes and hold druid staffs. The elks insist that they are not druids; they do not "speak"; and they say that the bear is chained.

They say that this other encampment consists of Comnall, Murcadh and Ragnad who can "speak"; but there is also a fourth, Sauruki, who cannot - not a druid? - he wears chain mail. Has a staff, but wears metal. He does a weird thing whenever they go to see the other three - makes a triangle sign with his hands, the index fingers at the apex though slightly overlap. It's not something we've seen before. It's almost like he's trying to ward them off or something. Looks at them expectantly.

We've been seen, so why be subtle; we get onto the path, and walk up towards this other camp. Nethza tips her head towards the two people in the camp who were watching, to be polite. They acknowledge. The lycanthropes sit quietly at their fire ignoring us. We get to this other camp. One person is there in blue and green robes, flowing. As he stands, they part slightly and we see chain mail underneath, with a light blue, dark blue and mid green, with wavy patterns. He holds a quarterstaff. He stands as we approach, throws his hood back and we see slicked back hair, mid-length blonde. Almost Asian-like features. He does the hand gesture. Riglan doesn't quite understand yet (insight 4+5) but guesses and does the gesture back. He looks relieved. He invites us to sit. (We guess - it turns out, accurately - that this is water cult).

"The others are sleeping. I'm Sauruki. I've been here quite a while - did you come from the keep?" Riglan tries to talk a bit, but can't really keep the guy on board (deception 15-1). Riglan says that sure, we weren't sent from his keep, but saw the fire and want to help and stop the ritual. He is quizzical and asks us to put out the fire with something elemental - it's a test - Nethza freezes it with Ray Of Frost. He relaxes again (and repeats the spell). "We mustn't play our hand too early!". He invites us to sneak away - the "other three" (the druids in his camp) don't know about "him".

He tells us that the fire cult is up to something big. There's an escalation here. "This uneasy truce we've had? The fire cult are the worst, along with" - and mentions 'Howling Hatred' (Feathergales) too - "...there's something serious stuff going on here - the Eternal Flame have guardians and priests spread amongst us. Whatever they're planning, I think it's going to happen soon - today soon, maybe, I don't know, but soon. No-one's seen Elizar Dryflagon in a while; he hasn't left the tower for all of today.". Nethza leans in and says "well, now that we're here - we can keep an eye. Why don't you head back down the river to the keep and get reinforcements? We can assault them head on" (Deception nat 20!). This works. He gathers his things and says he'll be back in no more than a day. He mentions that he senses most of the people here will be sacrificed to the fire. "If it happens, remember what we've been taught. Let it flow, risk nothing, leave quietly and secretly." He mentions too that the fire priests are unsure about them as a group, and blames the three of them for blowing his cover! But he is certain the whole thing is the **fire cult seeking recruits**. Anyone who doesn't pass the initiation tests will get sacrificed into the fire to feed their power.

As the other leaves, the three wake up and come out. Two are halflings, and one is a golaith. Fun. We fill them in. We learn that this place is called **Scarlet Moon Hall**. Elizar Dryflagon is mentioned again; he's an accomplished druid, known within druidic circles albeit only distantly and sent a message out over "the network" that this obscure circle had unearthed this rite. (It's all a lie, but they didn't know that).

(They mention that they're Circle Of The Moon).

They say that perhaps a fire dance, at 11pm that happens as they cast spells into the wicker giant; they could press upon the question of when this ritual is actually meant to happen then. We suggest leaving, but the goliath is enraged at the knowledge of the chained bear. Well, we're often helping because we see something is important to someone. So, we agree to stay rather than leaving and we'll join them at 11 - but they should be ready for a fight, since one seems likely.

It might be OK but for the lycanthropes. That's a huge risk.

It's already about 10:45pm. Drumming sounds start coming from the keep. We head back to Iniri's camp for now to explain, but two other druids step onto the path blocking our way. The are Circle of the Scarlet Moon. We say we believe there's a fire dance at 11 and ask if we can join; they do invite us. They talk about restoring the "rightful balance" of nature, and seem to fully believe that (Riglan insight: nat 1), but it depends on what "rightful" means!

They insist we head up immediately, so we don't get to talk to Iniri's group. Riglan does try to make eye contact (Riglan, insight 15+5) and we understand each other.

We head up - everyone is doing so. Hanging off towards the back we spot three very large hooded figures, at least as tall as Riglan, that seem to be trying to avoid joining the main throng; the leave behind two very large wolf-like creatures that seem to have leathery hides and almost lion-mane-like hair. None of the animals are brought up though, from their camp or the others.

The drum beat is surprisingly jazzy. This isn't sombre; it's a festive atmosphere. The Scarlet Moon people have scarlet robes adorned with moon motifs, because of course they do. Some are in linen red shorts with rolled down tops, and are topless; in very good condition, hench (!); ink tattoos and scarification tattoos, very adorned with markings; the women likewise. Energetic dancing.

We join in, to keep up appearances. Temo doesn't play instruments tho; mostly dancing. But Nethza pulls out the fire dancing sticks and the red robes are fully into it. People are encouraged to start throwing little spells into it. Just cantrips.

The group parts a little and an older looking man walks up - late 40s-early 50s - in the red robes, but with gold accents. A sash around his neck with phases of the moon embroidered. A beautiful ornate staff, part wood, part stone wound around each other. A clasp at the top with an orb held in there. He comes forward and the inner circle start chanting his name, "Elizar". He pulls out smoking pipe, fills it and takes a few puffs from it, then starts talking while the smoke billows out - it seems mostly for show.

"A full moon tonight! Good portents, powerful. Can you feel it? Can you feel the power of the moon? Very good portents, old magic tonight. All the magic tonight, feed it, feed any moon-based power you have into the wicker giant; let's load mother nature with more of our magic, then we can spread this balance back out, set it all back the way it should be; turn back the ravages of destruction - renewal, rebirth, let this earth be born again fresh and pure." And so-on.

Strands of magic are being cast skyward; he draws them into swirls around the wicker giant. We investigate but everyone has terrible rolls except Nethza - religion, 18+4. She thinks he's acting more like a warlock than a druid. Combining strands of magic from all around. It's circling the wicker giant, not going into it; it's going into *him.* The wicker giant might just be a distraction.

Riglan (wisdom 13+5, nature proficient) recognises that the wicker giant is not just a distraction. There's a being inside. Something moved within the wicker giant frame. As Elizar draws magic into himself, his other hand directs some of it out to the creature as well. Riglan tries Detect Magic. Unsurprisingly, all kinds of schools floating around in the air. Elizar is channeling druidic magic - abjuration school; he's an extremely powerful druid. He's sending out conjuration and abjuration magic in turn to the creature. Very strong magic inside the wicker giant; strong, pure elemental fire creature. Abjuration is encasing it - protection/defense/harness/control. The form Riglan sees appears to be based on control.

So it's an **actual fire elemental**. It's pretty big.

Our whispering and rocky performances (especially Maireagh, 6 - 3!) draw some suspicion we think; at midnight, Elizar says that it's nearly time - he'll "mull on this" - signals that tomorrow "we shall meet again" and that is when he'll know. He leaves and while some of the scarlet moon cult keep partying, our friendly druids start to leave; the big three hooded people skulk off. The goliath wanders up and mentions that those three are strange, only been here a couple of days and seemed to (?) replace three other druids. We go to their camp. Riglan sends a spider. Their wolf-like things are wargs. They throw back their hoods; three bugbears. It's not a bugbear camp, so presumably bad things happened to the three that were there. The spider finds bags, backpacks; belongings.

So that's not good. Riglan sends the spider up to the top to check the cultists - anything happening then. They seem to be getting pretty drunk and wild. Just the fire cult there. No sacrifices.

Anyway, we're all going to have to camp up and sleep for the night, then see what the morning brings. We check in on Gariena; she's OK by herself, and casts a spell to help us sleep - it gives us a more "alone in the woods" feel, blocking out the noise etc., and head back to camp with Iniri.

Watch is uneventful.
