# Riglan: Part 13

## DAY 77

**Level 6->7 overnight**. Riglan picks up Divination.

Following attending the Gala of the Goose on the Grand Dame, Temo's Fabulous Five will awake after their second and last night of stay at the Pipe, with rooms still available and paid for at the Griffon thereafter.

Riglan has a trippy (conventional) dream and wakes at around 6. He wants to sneak out to buy gifts for people. Stealth adv 7, 17 + 0. Downstairs, the front desk is open; staff are bustling around, presumably preparing for the day. Riglan asks about cakes at the front desk. Gateway Bakery. For Dwarven Brandy, they're willing to sell a bar stock bottle - costs a bit more - 5gp. The downstairs jewellers is surprisingly open too - pretty much 24/7, apparently - asking about maybe a black ring; jet or obsidian, apparently. There's a silver ring with jet set into it, and a ring made entirely out of obsidian. The latter is interesting and more unusual. 40gp. Now he runs over the bakery. It's only just opened. Temo likes chocolate; after some conversation, it turns out that they'd made a carved goose out of buttery pastry but with lots of chocolate details and chocolate laced throughout. It was made for the gala yesterday but wasn't picked up - looks like they went with the ice sculpture instead - they say it would've been 25gp, but cost 8gp and will sell for that; Riglan insists on 15gp. A few other things get packed into the box too. It's huge! Temo will love it.

Riglan waits around a while, as he doesn't want to wake people, but does drop the big box at the front desk. He wanders the streets, getting a feel for very early morning Yartar. Market is being set up - lots more carts than he's see before as people bring things in. People getting ready to go to work at the docks, that kind of thing. Very work-focussed. He also notices, perhaps for the first time, a few City Watch / guard people around. Fishing boats have left, but a few start coming back in as it's getting a little later now. A little after 7ish, Riglan heads back up to the room. Nethza is indeed awake already and Riglan gives her the ring, along with the Lightbringer mace as she's keen on switching to a real weapon. The other two wake up, and Riglan gives Maireagh the bottle.

Finally, Temo with the giant box. He's very excited. **He gets a picture taken on Maireagh's device**, and wants to share with people downstairs; so we get dressed and bring it down for the staff. Temo (persuasion 11+10) is asked to make the first cut - off with its head! So everyones digs in. As everyone finishes up, we pack our things and take the opportunity to check out. Lots of thank-yous and off we go.

Time to do more investigation. **First up, meet the Archive guy. Lanowin.** He leads us to a private study nook. He returns our journals and books. The journals would be of interest to a scholar of Besilmir, or to gain entrance to Candlekeep.

He pulls down two scrolls, which have maps. They're from 2 time periods, the *younger* one from about 600 years ago. There's a Watchful Order of Knights - set up by Knights of the Silverhorn; he points out 4 locations on the 600 y/ago map, which are Keeps that were built by those knights, fallen to ruin now, but for about 100 years their Watchful Order was set up & stationed there. **Temo recognises 3 of the locations - the earth cult Monastery, Feathergale Spire and fire cult Scarlet Moon Horn**. Riglan investigates (14-1) which is enough to realise that **Riverguard Keep is the fourth site**.

The scholar shows us his evidence via writings written in Late Phalorm. Well before creation of the Evermoors, maybe 100 years prior, likewise 100 years before the founding of Waterdeep & taming of the Desarin Valley. So that's the context where this Watchful Order was present; why were they there, then, if the land was "untamed"? **To keep a watch and warn the world should elemental evil rise again**. The signs of rising - people making pilgrimages to them. But the orcs overran them eventually, so the knights had to abandon the keeps.

At this point he turns to the other map, which portrays a much older time. It shows **6 dwarven sites that belonged to Besilmir**. They're not entirely accurate, as the map is a recreation from scraps and damaged historical material dating to that era 1500-1700 years ago - but it gives a rough idea of the extent of the Kingdom of Besilmir. It suggests that the kingdom overlaps the four Watchful Order sites. We recognise two of the six Dwarven sites he shows - **Halls Of the Hunting Axe and Summit Hall**. Of the other 4, they aren't in the same place as those keeps; these are new locations. One is named - **Veil Of Dancing Water**. It's towards the Northern half of the river, fairly close to its banks, in a veil between hills. Apparently, it could be a secret Dwarven site that is still in use today by, well, someone. A holy site for some Dwarven religions perhaps. Two more are today recognisable as ruined watchtowers; one much further South, beyond the hills at the edge of the old Besilmir territory; it looked over farms - unusual for a Dwarven kingdom - while the other is far to the North at the other edge, quite close to Stonebridge. That archway was in fact a symbolic entrance to the kingdom. The final location is in the hills somewhere but it's vague. There's a large circle on the map within which it might lie. **Apparently, it would hold the tomb of King Besil himself**. The circle spans the river. It is rumoured that he was buried with the wealth of the kingdom, so it's a good thing nobody knows where it is!

On the subject of The Kingdom Of Besilmir itself - most writings are from the perspective of scholars and sages. Very little comes from dwarves of Besilmir themselves; not much has been found of their archives, **with exception of some very rare tomes which are in the library at Mirabar** (oh, fuck, probably lost those then!). There are rumours that the Halls Of The Hunting Axe might contain a passageway leading to Tyr Besil, but scholars scoff at that - a Summer Palace is very rarely connected physically to a seat of power. It's by definition a retreat, where the king goes to get away from the burdens of court. He says that they know it's underground, was a sprawling city, with few surviving records from people who visited and wrote about it, claiming that dwarves didn't fight their nature - they started to dig. Multiple natural and improved caverns, under the Sumber Hills, at a depth of up to half a mile maybe. **So it definitely sounds like we ran into one of many parts of this sprawling place**. When orcs etc. started to overrun the surface, some people say that the dwarves went *very* deep underground and it could take hours to reach, making it very easy to defend; access was limited to chokepoint stairways. There are accounts of a grand entrance to the fortress of Tyr Besil itself, extremely heavily guarded and defended with multiple turrets and fort towers, watching over twisting stairs and causeways. **The grand gate was a 10ft thick stone gate that could only be opened and closed using complex mechanisms**. It was surrounded by a natural moat/chasm making it hard to storm. The part we saw had the chasm, but not so many towers or such a gate, so we probably didn't see that particular part.

That's all he has, he says, except perhaps the elves who may have descendants from the kingdom of Phalorm. But it's a sore point to talk about, since the elves didn't come to the defence of Besilmir when it came under siege. But perhaps the elves are, then, one of the only sources of information and writings actually from that time - everything kept within Tyr Besil was lost when the city was lost too. The elves regard it as an area of deep shame, so nobody has persuaded them to talk about it.

If we do ever get our hands on such information, our scholar says he'd love to see it and willing to spend more time investigating.

He ran out of time on one last thing... **There are accounts dating back further, that do match up with the book we'd found ourselves with the 6,000 year elementals-trying-to-get-to-our-plane-with-Drow-assistance book (see day 75 ish, +/- 1 day) - there seems to have been a Drow settlement of some kind beneath the Sumber hills**. Nobody knows how to find it - deep though the dwarves dig, it's nothing compared to the underdark. Could take a day or days to get there, even if you knew where to start.

Lanowin up for spending time on the drow angle, so we give him another 10gp (5gp per day) to look into it. He hands us some pieces of paper summarising his findings so far. He also marks up our own cartographer's approved map of the area with keep and ruin locations.

He says that if we wanted to speak to someone with tenuous connections to the elves descended from the old pact of Phelorm, **there's a young elf understudy called Llanowar at the Undertower studying under the Head Arcanist there. He can trace his ancestry**.

We thank him and head off.

Riglan's keen to get incense for his divination attempt; the Morning Spire is on the way to the Undertower. We go in; they have quite a lot. They sell blocks which they can size to order. Riglan gets 2 at 25gp each to satisfy the divination spell requirements.

We approach the undertower. The first 3 storeys are actually a public gallery of art. Above that a small school, rather than an academy. We are distracted for a moment by an unexpected small shop, that sells magic items - this is a school of magic after all. Two wands catch our eye; one is a Wand Of Pyrotechnics (40gp). Then there's a Wand of the War Mage (350gp), along with a Ruby of the War Mage (120gp). There's also an Enduring Spellbook (60 gp) - 500 pages! "The first and last spellbook you'll ever need". Temo wants both wands (!) and RIglan the spellbook, as an everlasting journal - 450gp list, ouch. Temo refuses to try and deceive them into thinking we qualify for a student discount, so Maireagh helps him with Enhance Ability - Eagle's Splendour; his persuasion roll gets advantage. Good thing too as first roll was a 2! Next roll is 17, +10.

With this, he gets chatting at the school. He'd never been able to get into a school of magic before, but at this point, seeing he has some skills already, they start asking if he's considered higher education etc., and give him a prospectus! He's not sure if he's happy or sad - when he needed school to learn magic they wouldn't let him in, now he knows some, they'd have him... Perhaps buying the spellbook made them think he's a wizard! At least the door is open - perhaps in future he could hone his skills here. He gets the student discount given to him anyway, bringing it down to 360gp.

Next, Temo investigates (15+9) to find who we should speak to about finding Llanowar. We should speak to Trinity, the matron of the halls of residence. We're directed to her office. She's a burly 6-ft-something human woman in her late 40s. Turns out we're in luck; Llanowar is not at classes and is cleaning - she takes us to him. We're introduced; Llanowar acts like he's expecting us and apologises to the matron for not telling her he had visitors coming today... He's clearly just getting out of cleaning! We go along with it. He keeps up the pretences well - Nat 20 deception!

We head out of the tower. Riglan: Perception 2+8. Llanowar seems young and elven sort of but partly looks not elven. He takes us to a cafe to talk, nearby. A strange, student-y cafe, serving the tower and a nearby college as well as the Shield Tower barracks with their many young recruits. It looks like a converted warehouse with a strong smell of the mastica bean brew we tried at Beliard. Run-down old couches surround tables with games on them. A high bench seat runs along one wall, facing windows looking out to the street. A kitchen seems to be producing nothing much other than sandwiches and fried potatoes at a fast pace, while a long bar serves sodas, teas and a lot of the mastica brew.

We offer to buy; he orders mastica, so follow suit and pay. We explain the situation (and in passing discover that his father is a half-elf, and mother an elf so he's quite young, but hard to say - 3/4 elf; he acts young though). His mother's side of the family goes way back, to Ilfarn days. We explain that we're trying to find ways to get original era docs from Tyr Besil, but it's culturally difficult. Apparently, his mum has always said that this stuff would be important some day, apparently. "**Our line is the last of the line of the Lore Keepers. Mum's family - our family - have looked after the old texts for centuries. But they're over in Irrasil, North West of Yartar. My grandfather's line are rangers and protectors of the forest kingdoms and served to run the defence of, and supply travellers heading to, the High Forest. We are the last bastion of the old elven nation and gateway between the realms of man and the realms of the elves of the High Forest.**"

At this Riglan takes a risk and explains about the orb. Llanowar says he'd like to go but can't - takes off a pendant - a **hummingbird; malachite feathers, amber eyes**. He'll need it back, so we must return. **"If you show this to the guards of the city, they will let you in and if you can show it to either my sister or my mother, they will take you seriously." His family name is Ilira, sister is Anhaern, mother is Lyrei**.

It'd take at least two days by riding horse, if doing well and going fast. We wrap up, thank him, repeat our promise to return with his pendant and take our leave. He says, of course!

* We leave a note a Wallheim's asking her to proceed with the manticore work, including the wings, promising to return and leave 1 platinum as downpayment. We slide it under the front door, Riglan using a bit druidcraft to blow the paper in a little further so it can't be pulled back out to steal the coin!
* We hire four riding horses for best possible speed; the dog will have to ride with Temo. We head to Lionshield Trading Coster, showing our card; we don't know how long we'll be but all they need is a deposit. It's 50gp per horse, which is lots but we'll get it back on return of the horses. With the trading card, it'll be equivalent 1gp per day hire per horse, so we should get a lot back later. No further discounts for having 3 of our own saddles though!
* We check out of the Griffon. We'd probably paid for an extra night or two but don't worry about it and just let them know the room is free.

**Without further ado, we head off at best possible speed to the High Forest and Irrasil**. We leave at around 10:30am, heading onto the road and East towards Calling Horns & the High Forest northern edge.

Riglan speaks to the horses (animal handling 16+5) to get best possible speed on the road. At 2:30, the horses are tiring so we stop for a short rest. We only have 5 pears left (Yartar having no fresh fruit or veg spare) so Riglan gives one each to the horses to help cheer them up. We draw straws for the remaining pear and Nethza wins, but gives it to Riglan as she thinks he likes them more!

While everyone rests, Riglan forages and finds food that'll feed everyone in the evening. Onward! Animal handling only 5+5 this time. So much for giving them pears... They're tired, so not as good going. By 7:30, we reach a roadside inn. Handy! We're a good chunk of way to Calling Horns by now, though not entirely sure how far.

Stables and rooms (doubles only) are arranged - 4gp. With that sorted, we can relax; no need for watches or whatever. We stash the food we foraged and lean on the inn's dining room; it's cheap, 2gp for all of us for traveller's food and some light drinks. A local musician plays for tips. Nobody's tipped so far, and Temo's been there. He tips a gold. She's very pleased. Maireagh teases Temo a bit for being so fancy! His autumn clothing, wands and holster, etc... He takes it well - he's enjoying the novelty of all this stuff, and figures he'll enjoy it until common sense gets the better of him. Nethza defends him a bit, but it's all fine.

We head to the room. Riglan suddenly realises that in all the excitement of travel, he never tried his divination spell. So, we head outside and find a space near some trees, a bit away from the road, where it's safe to set up a circle of stones, uses control flame to burn a fallen branch, lies it along with bark and leaves, some feathers found foraging - even a dead bird he'd found - then uses charcoal from the branch to put some druidic runes on the stones, and burns the block incense within that. He then tries to channel magic through his staff. He tries to ask, "Who is the intended victim of the orb of destruction?"

A small spirit rabbit appears in the flames as the ritual proceeds. It rises up into the smoke and the smoke takes on a shape that is unfamiliar at first, then forms into what looks like some trees; the trees dissolve into the smoke and it focuses in one particularly large tree, which disappears into the smoke too; the rabbit leaps out of the fire and says, "Irrasil". Nobody else sees anything other than smoke and what might've been a rabbit.

So, that village/town is the target as a whole, rather than a specific person in the region or a different town/settlement. Riglan, perception 13+8; he also realises that he saw not just trees, but trees with stairs, landings, houses and so-on. The big tree had a slightly different design of buildings set into it. It was one specific tree. Riglan does his best to sketch what he saw, at least focusing on the different styles of buildings, so we can show it to the elves. Temo - intelligence-based perception, rolls 16+3+3 - points at the drawing. One particular area with a door with a rough sketch of a shape above it. Looks like pendant. Implication: Central target, if there is one, specifically could be these archives - the books - either to hide theft, or to destroy the knowledge since it perhaps includes things that might interfere with the elemental plans, e.g. information on what happened last time & how it was thwarted. Speculation presently but we understand the urgency more now.

We go to sleep, with the dog on watch just in case.

Riglan dreams - but wisdom saving only 5+8, so remembers not much sadly:

* A vision of large, dark caverns
* There is a sense of large creatures moving around that seem to live in or near these caverns
* He sneaks along as a spider, detecting the presence of other, large spiders and the presence of humanoids wandering purposefully around
* He emerges into a really large natural cavern with a blueish-green, sickly kind of light coming out of a chasm that bisects the area; lots of lean, tall-looking creatures silhouetted against the light seem to be gathered around the chasm; spiders congregate around the edges of the light shining up on cavern walls above

## DAY 78

We ride off at around 8:30. Riglan feels the pendant might be guiding him (survival with advantage, 8 then 9 + 8). Out of the corner of his eye, he thinks he sees a spectral rabbit out of the corner of his eye; every half hour or so, he thinks he sees it again. Animal handling: 19+4. We move quickly. It's a bit cooler today and there are distant clouds that we think are forming above the forest; eventually a drizzle starts to fall.

When the horses tire, we stop for a short rest. Riglan forages (but doesn't hunt) - a few more fresh things and some water. Riglan estimates maybe 30-50 miles further to the part of the forest of interest, and decides to wait on his last divination spell for now, since he wants to ask where the orb is and it could move. The afternoon roll is much worse (animal handling 5+5). We reach a point where the rabbit goes off the road, so Riglan feels he should do the same; the road carries on, but this rabbit has headed elsewhere. After some discussion - we haven't even reached Calling Horns yet, the map shows no forest to the South - Riglan just has a feeling, and insists that we follow. The rabbit pops up through the grass now and again. Riglan, survival to keep up: 17+8. At least the horses don't have to gallop! The rabbit's not so fast. We get to a bridge and road; we think we've managed to cut across to the road South out of Calling Horns.

At the bridge, we see quite a few people approaching the crossing and hang back to let them cross over - a few donkeys and carts. They look like they've been travelling a while. We say hello as they go past, then cross ourselves. Riglan looks for the rabbit - perception only 6+8, but he manages to see when the rabbit leaves the road and bounds towards the tree line. We give chase. Animal handling 5+5 *again*, so the horses don't really like it much. It's fast but certainly not a gallop. We do just about keep up with the rabbit. By just past 5pm, everyone's getting tired. The tree line is only maybe an hour away at a fast clip. Riglan persuades people to give it a go. We get there, but the horses are exhausted. We get to the treeline and Riglan looks for a place to camp just outside the edge of the forest. He finds a couple of large stand-alone trees and we set up under a particularly beautiful grand, old tree. Some kind of beech.

This time we can use the foraged food. There's now water nearby, though, so we'll be using up what we have with us. Riglan looks for water (survival only 4+8) and finds some in the woods but it's about a 20 minute walk. We figure we'll fill up there in the morning. Since he needs fire for the ritual we set up a fire place so we can cook up the various things that Riglan foraged and two more ration's worth of the now-old dragon meat, which might be a bit dodgy cold but it's good in a stew. There's some bread, albeit old, we it works also in the stew and we eat well. The horses get feed to supplement the thin grass around this area.

Nethza asks Temo for fireworks - Riglan warns the horses not to be scared, then we had out into the fields a bit and Temo gives the wand a go. It's pretty good. We agree that if Temo is ever in trouble and needs help, he could use this as a signal and we'll all come to him. Maireagh teaches Riglan a few things about how to mend the dog, because she's had some ideas of new effects and fields she can create and Riglan knows how to do basic mending using magic. He'd found that he'd been forgetting how to use his frost spell (Arctic Blast gets removed by DM, overpowered in retrospect) but had been watching Maireagh mend the dog a few times before.

Riglan now sets up for divination. The question is: "Who brings the orb of destruction to the elves at Irrasil?" Initially the effects are similar to before; the smoke takes a while to coalesce this time. A general picture of forest, then trees, elven features; the rabbit does not reappear this time; the smoke shifts between almost an eleven form, dissipates, tries to take on the form again but dissipates once more; then settles, before rising and showing a cloaked figure, very long cloak, hood up, two scimitars; the tree above us seems to speak in elven, "The hooded servant Duatha carries the orb. It is not for the elves" - and it fades.

We're not sure what that means. Riglan insight 13-1, not great. The spell tried to answer by focusing on the elves. The previous time, the question was too general; this time, perhaps a bit too specific.

We finish up for the night and set up watch with the dog as usual. Maireagh, Nethza, Temo, Riglan. Temo gets shaken awake by Maireagh. Riglan wakes too. Nethza had fallen asleep on watch (aww!) and the dog raised alarm. Temo notices his sling isn't doing anything. He opines that it's perhaps just people from the forest? **Nethza is standing outside of the shade of the trees with the dog while Maireagh wakes us up, and seems transfixed, looking towards the forest. Riglan, perception 14+8, notices that he's sweating. Nethza too; it's extremely hot - it feels as hot as the middle of the sunniest day in summer. It's dark though. It's also very dry. Riglan runs out to Nethza and sees about 16 fires burning in the high forest**; they seem likely to be wildfires, but are not far from where we but slightly towards the north. ***_Riglan (insight 17+5) thinks that the orb has probably detonated_***. He unties the horses and asks them to wait if they can, then looks around to see if the rabbit is anywhere to be seen? Perception 12+8; he does not see the rabbit but feels the pendant "tugging" and holding in his hand he gets a sense of where to go. He shouts "this way!" and runs in. Animals are panicking and running the opposite way (obviously). Riglan keeps following the pull of the pendant, party in tow. Wisdom check, 2+5. In the commotion, Riglan is being tugged in a direction but not necessarily to a specific destination and we have to navigate around trees in the way, animals panicking and so-on.

Riglan tries to use Conjure Woodland Beings to call 8 sprites, asking them to help with navigation and warn about the direction of fire spread by e.g. flying up above the canopy periodically, flying ahead to try and see if they can spot paths or people. 2-3 of them stay in the trees with us, the rest fly up and spread wide. At one point we're headed directly towards a cluster of fires. The fires are being caused or worsened by the strange hot air, which we can't do much about.

Con saves: Temo 17+0, Riglan 1 (FFS, so many low roles) +3 - gains 1 point of exhaustion.

We get to the edge of a particularly bad burning area. Four large trees fully ablaze nearby, undergrowth smouldering too. Ahead, essentially an inferno engulfing a dozen or so trees and Riglan sees some elves running, carrying wounded, heading in our direction from the blaze. Others have buckets of water from a stream that's about 5 minutes away. We run in and ask the elves what we can do to help; they say that the fire has spread to the village. They give us wounded as they run in to save others. Riglan casts Healing Word (3+3+5). Riglan looks for more things we might do (perception 17+8). It is of course chaos;  everything seems lost, death and destruction everywhere. People are trying to rescue others from fallen branches and so-on, so we join in with that.

All eight sprites join in the rescue effort, rescuing people in trees since they can fly and hauling water from the stream. Riglan leaves them doing that as long as he can - they're protecting the forest.

Temo and Riglan run in, trying to help lift fallen branches etc. off people. Nethza and Maireagh are nowhere to be seen; we trust they're doing what they can. We try to find the sister** Anhaern **or mother** Lyrei.** We shout to ask if anyone has seen them. Nobody has but the point to the middle. They can't get close. The tallest tree. He warns us that it's very hot and burning. We run towards it, and then see Nethza and Maireagh ahead of us (fire resistance, both; Netzha with Armour Of Agathys too - cold). Riglan tries to cast Frostbite on the bottom area of the tree, and it does have some effect of briefly lowering the flames but not for long. Feeling somewhat helpless, he keeps casting it to do whatever he can; Maireagh calls to Riglan that she needs him to show her which tree it is amongst the smoke and flame, so he points out and shouts about it being the largest one. The pendant is tugging that way too.

Maireagh produces some kind of strange device which manages to drop some rain - a big bubble of water - doing this twice onto some areas around and this puts out fire on that particular tree. Seeing this, Riglan throws a couple of ice knives (L1) at nearby flames in adjacent trees so that the ice shards melt to water and help suppress radiant heat a little. Maireagh asks us to run up a structure in the tree (the library, we think) - Nethza will cast fly on her and Maireagh, towing a levitated dog. Temo and Riglan have to try and climb the tree. Riglan says "sorry Temo, just run with it", turns into a giant lizard and picks up Temo in its mouth then climbs the tree (30ft climb). We see inside that some of the rooms are smouldering - the "rain" didn't get in, so Temo uses water containers to try and manage that. He heads in the direction the pennant is tugging as a lizard, into a partially collapsed room. It feels like people are buried, so the lizard starts moving beams etc. and the rest of the party, who've arrived now, assist. We see two figures collapsed underneath the rubble, partly crushed, clutching onto a large bag with a wet cloak covering a pile of books. Riglan turns back into himself and gets Nethza & Maireagh to grab the books into the bag of holding.

As he brings down the unicorn totem for healing & casts L2 on the nearest figure - the daughter - **then feels something hit his neck as a poison dart hits him**. (Retcon: This turns out to be a sneak attack, so it turns into a high damage roll of 31, over half his HP - he'd definitely have been rather more animated about that!) - con save just *barely* saves, 12+3; sprites are still up. Temo tries to see who it was (perception 7+2) then investigates more as Riglan shouts "we have a sniper!" so runs around, investigation 18+9, **sees a cloaked figure skulking behind the doorway**. Riglan holds concentration on his sprite spell as he shrugs off the worst of the poison.

He shouts "it's the asshole cloaked dude from Riglan's vision!" and battle commences.

Temo casts Hold Person on the figure (Wisdom save, DC 14), and surprisingly, the spell works! It's held in place. Temo shouts in glee "got him!" and runs closer, training his bow on the figure in readiness. Maireagh is a long way away and has to run right up to see who we're talking about - she's almost in melee range almost before she knows it, but uses full motion to get there. She calls the dog to run up and attack, which thanks to the target's paralysis turns into a crit success for 12 damage. The creature tries to break free and now succeeds, but doesn't get to do anything just yet. Nethza turns, runs forward a little to use the hexblade curse then attempts Eldritch blast. Despite furniture providing cover and the creature now being able to move and dodge, both hit (8+5 damage).

Riglan's up. The daughter is up and he quicky fills her in; "protect your mother!" - she drags her mother away into a corner. Throws a water skin at her in case of nearby fire. He activates his staff, moves further away hoping to keep concentration up on his sprites, then casts Frostbite at the creature, which takes 7 damage (fails CON 17 save).

Temo aims & fires. He *just* hits (3, 6 + 9). Gets 25 with sneak attack, but it has some kind of reactionary resistance and only takes 12 - kind of dodges, very quickly. Temo says, "Hey! That's my trick!" - it's hood is pushed back and we see white hair and purple skin. Drow. Temo sees that the creature has very intricate tattoos etched in silver all over its face in a kind of cobweb design with tears running down its eyes. The skin is very dark purple. The hood and cloak seem to shift in the light. He shouts, "Riglan! We're going to need that unicorn over here!"

Maireagh attacks with her sword, hitting twice - 7, 12. The dog attacks and hits for 9, but now it's the assassin's turn. It invokes darkness - but Nethza counter-spells; she's out of spells now though. The drow now throws up its hood, and due to an amazing four shit rolls, nobody knows where it's gone. So now it's Nethza's turn, but she doesn't know where the creature is. She says, "Maireagh! Block that exit!". Maireagh hasn't felt anyone push past, so we have to hope that the Drow is still in the room. Nethza moves into the middle of the room and takes the Guard action.

Riglan moves the unicorn to the centre of the crowd and uses its aid to find the drow; perception adv., 8, 19+8. He notices shimmering in front of the bookcase - he shouts, "it's there!", throwing flame - 8+3 damage. Temo tries to figure out where the character is, but can't (Perception even with advantage via unicorn of only 9+2); he takes aim, negating his disadvantage, at the area Riglan indicated; hits (14+9) for 10 damage. Maireagh's turn - and like Riglan, she *does* see where the Drow is hiding. She runs along the wall, up to the side of the bookcase and once again attacks twice. The first swipe is wild but the second hits for 11. The dog has a go too, but misses.

The assassin now suddenly misty steps right next to the mother, attempting to assassinate. Temo tries to distract with Silvery Barbs but it still hits. **The mother is dead**.

Nethza teleports with the mace, hitting twice, the second critical; 13 first, then 14. This kills the assassin, so Riglan runs up and burns his revivify scroll on the mother. We need to get out! There's still levitation on the dog, and Nethza is still holding Fly. This means there's Riglan, Temo, the body and two elves; Mareaigh casts Feather Fall on the five of us, so we can jump off, two can fly and the levitating dog is towed.

We realise that Temo's hold-person success was very lucky, as assassins can be very tricky when people aren't aware they're there! (Auto-crit on 1st round of combat). With darkness, it'd also have had advantage, so the counter-spell was a good call too.

Anyway, we get down to the ground. Maireagh has another Create Water which she can use on another tree, then two more, until she's tapped out. The sprites have done good work here too, but the air is still bizarrely hot and dry. Riglan and Temo try to work together to figure out what might be going on - the orb? - both roll 19 (despite disadv. due to exhaustion) on Perception & Investigation respectively, and notice an open box near a shrine with a flaming orb glowing away inside. Riglan runs over and closes the box, and casts Dispel Magic at the best he can do - L3. The powerful magic in the orb fights it. Nat 1 on the roll. He tries again. 13 + 5, does not work. One more time, fails (rolls nat 3); blows the ring charge (rolls nat 5); fails a fourth time. No more spells left. The other two don't know how to stop it. We have to try and run it out of the forest by the shortest possible route; meanwhile the sprites continue to try and help. The box it is in is hot, but beginning to cool; it's as if it's not immediately now messing things up but is still very dangerous.

Riglan tries druidcraft; it's going to be very hot and arid with spontaneous forest fires for around a full 24 hours, except right at the end of the day when it might cool down.

**No choice but to burn even more things and he burns a Skywrite spell for druidic assistance** - not the special one, but with gist of, "Major wildfires in High Forest near Irrasil, south of Noanar's Hold, hot weather to continue full day, please render all fire fighting assistance possible". All those who have survived head south to try and get beyond the strange hot zone. Riglan heads off to get the horses (Survival disadv. 4+8) so it takes a while but he finds the horses, so he walks them south and eventually finds the various exhausted elves on the fringes, just in the plains, wary of camping in the forest in case the fires reach them.

Riglan finds a spot near a tree trunk and in half-daze fetches ferns and any loose softer dry grass or leaves to make a padded area around the base. He invites Nethza next to him on his left, Maireagh on his right, Temo can curl up between Nethza and Temo, the dog sits at their feet. Riglan looks at the dog. "Good dog," he says, and not so much falls asleep as loses consciousness.

## DAY 79

It's an interrupted night (short rest, not long) but we do recover a few spell slots (half rounded down at each level) and Riglan's spell-storing ring recharges at dawn. There's around 4 hours of rest; so he does lose his exhaustion, though still tired.

Maireagh decides to walk in to see if she can control more of the flames, using more of the water spells. It's a question of trying to contain the damage. The larger fires are out of control mostly and she can't do much but she can tackle stuff at the edges. The rest of us accompany her. Riglan overnight has realised he needs the spell too, so is able to join in a little. We use the opportunity on the way back to pack up our abandoned camp, fortunately nothing stolen and not burned.

Later, Riglan returns to speak to Lyrei and Anhearn. He first apologises, since we were just a bit too late having ridden out to try and warn them; then asks how they are holding up. "It's just - unbelievable - that this is happening... It's just, so... We didn't even realise what was happening...". We talk about the elementals, cults and the orb. Temo searches the Drow's body; she suggests that he perhaps check for other tattoos. So he's not shy, and strips the Drow down to get a good look for clues in his markings. Investigation 6+9, with Flash Of Genius +5 from Maireagh.

Anhearn asks for the books that were rescued, so we fetch things from the bag of holding. She finds a match in one book to a string of tattoos on the drow's chest; three we recognise as stylized versions of the elemental cult symbols, the fourth then presumably the water cult; the book matches a fifth, centred on the chest just below the neck, that seems to link the other four. It's the elder Elemental Eye. **All four are required to make the Elder Elemental Eye**. 

"Legends claim that when one rises, it should be assumed the other three will rise as well. Although they are rivals, they really need each other, since all four are needed to bring about the return of the Elder Elemental Eye." But in particular, this Drow's tattoo's are magic; they are of Binding; it's a contract killer, the tattoos binding them to complete the job.

As we talk more, at one point Anhearn pulls out a text about the Fane Of The Eye. It's an ancient underground temple complex. The book talks of the Cult Of the Elder Elemental Eye. There's no location, but there's a good descriptive account in the book. "It's interesting that you're saying the cult at the moment are inhabiting the old Kingdom Of Besilmir, because the last time that the Eye attempted to come into this plane, which is what this book recounts, it was before the kingdom existed. Did the dwarves dig too deep and accidentally create a connection from their kingdom to the Fane?

As we're going over this, a few druids are arriving, one as a giant eagle. Riglan greets them. They say more is on the way, some rangers too. "Any further assistance you might be able to provide would be greatly appreciated, of course!" - Riglan blows more spell slots on fire control, while Nethza heads in because she's resistant and can get in close and help physically; Temo stays at camp to help with medical aid and just logistics at camp, with the dog for protection. Nethza finds a way to get Ray Of Frost to be effective, and by watching what she does Riglan finds a way to get better results from Frostbite, albeit not as effective as Nethza's rays. It's still better than nothing and we can do cantrips as long as need.

Between all the druids, the fires are more under control and not spreading, if not fully out. It's enough to hold things together while we wait for the strange air to dissipate. One of the rangers casts a fog cloud, counteracting some of the weird dryness from the orb. Some will remain for a while to keep things monitored until nature manages to rebalance and the fire suppresses naturally.

The rangers ask about the refugees from the now-destroyed village, so Riglan takes them to talk to Lyrei. They don't want to head to human towns, so look to seek shelter with wood elf bretharen perhaps, further into the woods. **The rangers offer to shelter them at Shadowtop if they wish. We are invited to attend - we certainly would like to go.** We are reminded that if there is *one being* that has memories of the last time the Eye threatened our plane, then he'll be at Shadowtop - the Treant. It was alive the last time this happened.

Anyway, that'll be why the Knights set up those Keeps; they guard entrances not to Tyr Besil, it's because Tyr Besil connects to the Fane somewhere.

We talk of the dwarves and ancient alliances that suppressed the Eye around 3,500 years ago (our prior account referencing the Drow from around 6,000 years ago being an even older resurgence), and show them the Hummingbird token & talk of their son at Yartar and how he's really to thank for trusting us and giving us directions to their village and them, particularly. They reveal four key texts, of which one is the most important - **the book specifically about the rise of the Temple Of Elemental Evil**. We thank them for that. Riglan notices in passing that these books have the same kind of enchantment as his journal, and are in good condition - as new, almost. Disarming in a way.

So if the various accounts are reasonably complete and we haven't missed any in the middle, which seems likely at this point, it's around a 3,000 year gap between resurgences (we know of one around 10,000 years ago too), so no wonder few beings ever have direct memory of it, and no wonder no coordinated watch, or response exists, because no societies have ever lasted that long. The ones discovering the issue do something about it, but over time, that crumbles.

Temo suddenly pipes up, "Hey! Look what I found!" - he's still been looking through the Drow's stuff. There's a bottle of Drow poison - Riglan rubs the back of his neck, "Huh! Yes! Not a fan!". We put that carefully in Maireagh's bag. There's also a Cloak of Elvenkind, but made of black cloth, possibly spider silk. We are warned by Anhearn that it can't be used in sunlight long or it'd be spoiled, but would be useful underground or at night. For now, that goes in the bag too.

As people are packing up to head to Shadowtop, we consider that the elemental cults may have been independently directed to seek out remaining knowledge of these various eras and capture or destroy it. This explains the "hit" on the Mirabar delegation and taking of the books by the water cult. If those books aren't destroyed, perhaps we get them back one day.

Anhearn points out that all four cults work together to bring about the Eye, but they are also enemies. The Eye is so chaotic that it encourages this; each element believes it is superior to the others and will be trying to eliminate the other. Water and fire, air and earth in particular as warring pairs. Once the elemental princes come through, they'll wreak havoc even if the Eye itself doesn't come through. Any one of them is seriously bad news. The Eye can act through the princes. But it's still not as bad as the Eye itself coming through and that does need all four through first.

We're surely going to need more people than Temo's Fabulous Five!

The ranger asks if the injured can ride the horses. Of course we don't mind! The ranger knows a path that the horses can walk, and we start on our way towards Shadowtop. The druids stay behind to tend to the forest. One in particular comes to thank Riglan for using the skywrite spell, as he looks after this part of the forest and would've had to do it himself otherwise. The drow's body is strapped to the horses.

Our procession consists of 20 survivor elves, the four of us plus dog and one ranger. Four horses carry wounded and Riglan can help one other person for some it by WIldshaping (by request) into a large elk for 3 hours at a time. He can do this twice for up to 6 continuous before needing a short rest to regain a use.

These are not full fey paths, but Riglan recognises them as shortcuts through the forest; there is a fey touch here. We travel faster than we normally wood, through a sort of corridor through the trees. There are brightly coloured wild flowers; the light quality seems different. A very wide (6-7ft) fallen tree has been carved into a bridge over a wide stream - almost a river - at one point. We have a short rest in the fourth hour. The ranger tells us it's only another 2 hours to go. Onward.

We emerge eventually to see a very different vista. The sun is low, with most of the forest floor in shade. We are elevated, looking through a break in the trees at the end of the fey path atop something of a rocky outcrop. Three mountain peaks rise to the right, covered in the top in snow. Several miles behind them, a larger range, partly shrouded in cloud. Riglan realises these are the Lost Peaks & Star Mounts from his map. The forest stretches for miles around in every direction. Below us, in a gentle wide bowl/depression, we see other outcrops here and there with rivers falling as waterfalls. At the bottom of the bowl is a stand of particularly large trees, which are so tall they rise above us. Two especially are true giants, one forming a more wide crown, the other more slender and reaching, branches arcing upwards.

The ranger leads us to a path that descends down past moss and fern covered sides, waterfalls around, other water trickling everywhere; almost a perpetual mist lies at the bottom of this depression from it all. Riglan estimates around 120ft or so of descent to reach the bottom, into the mist. Soft underfoot but not soggy. Plunge pools connect in a network of small ponds, with lotuses, lily pads and reeds; lush carpets of soft grass and thick moss form paths between, with thick ferns lining edges. And of course, the giant trees; huge buttress roots curving far above us, arcing up to enormous trunks. Some of them have been adapted as pathways, so we are able to take an elevated route above the moss until we get to the centre section. We're at that point led *underneath *the roots of the two particularly huge trees.

There are many animals around but not many humanoids. We see a tortle rising out of a pond, attending to some giant frogs. It waves to our group and Riglan waves back, but feels a little foolish for doing it as the ranger waves in response and Riglan realises that the wave was probably not for himself!

In the central area, an older half-orc looking druid or ranger walks up and greets our guide. He introduces himself. He's actually a ranger; one of the wardens of this grove. He is called **Gaporska**. Riglan introduces himself and his party, and says that the four of us had intended to travel here socially but it seems we now bring people seeking refuge. He shows the Emerald Enclave symbol and points out that he's very new it, and had been told to come here to find out more, so doesn't really know how it all works.

"Ah! Welcome. So this is your first time here? **This brings me much joy, to welcome a Spring Warden.** I was once a Spring Warden myself. I hope that the High Forest and Shadowtop is what you had hoped it would be."

Well it is, though we've not had much time to think about it. These huge trees are called Shadowtop Trees. They like damp areas. Very wide canopies to try and keep the ground wet - sunlight doesn't reach it. Riglan makes sure that the elves' books are OK with damp!

"This area we've been lucky. It's an area that's in part of the High Forest that has always remained safe - "...

...Riglan says, "Oh fuck!", and brings out the orb in its case, saying he hopes we haven't just jeopardised their safety. The warden tells us that its magic has already been spent / escaped, so it's become harmless now. It was perhaps charged through a ritual in an elemental node.

The orc assures us that Turlang and the Treants have taken up guardianship of this entire section all the way through the Tall Trees. Turlang isn't here in Shadowtop - he doesn't like getting his feet wet (!) - but he does reside nearby. This region is the enclave's meeting place. The Tortle is **Moonan**; she tends to the ponds. There are at least a dozen druids and rangers at Shadowtop at any given time though - we'll see the others in due course!

"Well, you are always welcome to stay here. You must be tired if you've travelled all the way here. Why don't I set you up with a place where you can settle down and sleep?" - and he points towards an area under the trees where we can set up camp. The temperature is great, and the "roof" is covered in all manner of glow worms and so-on.

"Feel free to wander around; nowhere is off limits". He heads off to get the elves settled in.

We set up camp. Tents aren't necessary but Riglan sets up a bit of lean-to with some canvas just because the others might appreciate that kind of reliable physical barrier. But Nethza points out we don't even need bedrolls - the moss is soft and yet dry. Nethza and Riglan have a bit of a heart to heart - he's here, at last; he feels guilty that he pushed them to get to forest edge that night so they were tired - Nethza had looked so freaked out - but she points out that they'd have been much further away otherwise, and less able to help even if they'd seen the fires a little sooner. Everyone was so shocked and didn't really know what to do at the time, so we were *all* a bit freaked out.

Riglan goes wondering around on the moss paths between the pools down below. There's almost a strange moonlight effect due to bioluminescence and the mist; even though it's not fully dark in the sky yet, he realises that it won't get fully pitch dark down here later anyway due to the natural glowing sources of light. Lots of animals in the water and just "around". Aside from the water soundtrack, very far up above there are birds making various noises and some cranes and wild ducks populate the pools below.

"I'd almost forgotten what this sounded like", said Riglan, who hasn't heard a full evening chorus of birdsong for a long time. Above us, there's just a little bit of golden sun hitting the canopy.

Riglan can't understand why people would ever cut forests down.

Nearby, a tortle emerges from a pond and ambles over, holding a very brightly coloured young giant frog. **Moonan**. She hands Riglan the frog and he cuddles it. "You are a shepherd too". It's cute. Moonan says that she knows where Turlang is and we could meet him now, if we want; she reaches into the pond a pulls out a big staff. She walks into the pond, and casts Water Walking on the five of us so it's easy for us to follow.

As we walk she's telling Riglan all about flora and fauna. He's sketching and making notes in his journal hastily as we go. She's quiet absent minded, as if distracted by conversations all around. Riglan can hear all the animals and plants talking too. There are two routes at one point - one drier than the other! We opt for the drier option, albeit a little longer. We're heading up the other side of the bowl pretty much, but the path is well worn and easily followed. We join another path that we can see back down and realise that one heads behind a waterfall. We reach some giant beech shaped trees, then beyond, to a view of even taller trees. The section "Tall Trees" is well named. Turlang and the ents have been tending the area and after a period where it hadn't grown much, this area is once again growing. Its borders are well secured and it has no dark history; one of the safest areas in the High Forest. About 10 miles in each direction and slowly expanding.

The trees as we get close are so large and widely spaced due to their size that there's almost a second lower tree canopy formed beneath and then, beneath that, a third canopy of huge ferns, palm-like plants, bushes and so-on. We are led to a small stand of trees and as we approach two or three turn and move, parting ways as we arrive. Moonan then calls out for **Turlang** by name.

After a moment, a large tree moves into view; it's big, but certainly not as giant as the trees around. Maybe 30 ft tall. It moves slowly towards us. The upper boughs and leaves slowly part and sections in the upper trunk form what seems to be a face and eyebrows. It somehow crouches down, settling down into a wider stance to get a better look at us. It leans forward.

"Moonan! What have you brought me? ... Oh! A forest giant. I haven't seen a forest giant in many years! What are you doing here, forest giant?"

Riglan introduces himself and his "very best friends".  He asks politely if the Treant remembers the times maybe 3000 or 6000 years ago when elemental evil tried to rise before. Turlang says he will walk through the lands to try and find the memories; things that lead him back. He raises his branches (arms?) and noise like wind through the leaves is heard, then all manner of birds arrive and start talking - Riglan can understand - of times and places and other such matters. Turlang moves and sways, not being too careful about where his feet go so we have to watch out; at one point we see his foot goes down and roots are pushed under (we see the ground moving). After about 5 minutes he says he knows where he must go - there are deep places - "caves under hills, caverns under swamps, which remember. I have left my memories there. I will go back and find these memories you speak of, and then we can talk about it."

Riglan asks Moonan if we should go with him, but she says he should just be left to it. We can check back or an animal can tell us when he's next back. It might be a while. We're happy to stay and, Moonan says, they're happy to have us.

"Ah! The stars are out", she says; and we look up and realise we can see them starting to appear too, in the now-dark-purple sky. Where Turlang was, trees slowly start to close back in. We head back to Shadowtop. "Oh, why don't I show you the fast way down?" she says; that's the wet way... She crafts magically some stone slabs with bark coating - we are asked to climb on; they're a set of loosely connected stones we can stand on, knitted together with spongy bark. It floats down river, towards some rapids and what we now know is a waterfall. Maireagh's ready with Feather Fall! Temo is a little concerned and finding it hard to keep his feet. As we reach the edge, though, we fall fast but the stone bits stay sort of level as it kind of heads over stairscase-style. We do get fairly wet as the stones fall fast, but slower than the waterfall. Near the bottom, it splashes into the water but soon levels out again, towards calmer waters and eventually to a pond Moonan drags it to the edge so we can disembark.

She tells us that there's a drum circle when the moon gets high enough, pointing to a slightly raised area nearby between some of these huge trees, with a canopy break so that the moon is visible. Temo perks up at that. We'll be there! Moonan reckons an early moon today - the "1st third of the night". And she disappears back into the pond.

We go back to our spot to dry off. In some ways, without the contrast of dappled sunlight, it almost feels brighter from all the fireflies, glowing bugs, mushrooms and so-on. Some ponds seem to even have bioluminescent fish and frogs.

Riglan remarks that he feels like a child again; when he was young, the big trees of his forest seemed that much more giant. Here, where everything is on a whole other scale, he feels tiny once more; only this time, he can hear and understand all the noise of the plants and animals. Much quieter now that it's night, though plenty of things are still moving around in the forest. Shadows are strange, since light is being emitted from all sorts of surfaces rather than just the sky.

Riglan asks the party if he can explore until "moon o'clock".  He's looking for things for his journal. He leaves his shield and backpack - Nethza and Maireagh do too, for the first time. Temo still brings his wand! Riglan calls the little fey spider, just to sit on his shoulder and enjoy the journey.

There's a root bridge over a pond to the right, reed beds ahead and the tree we were under rising behind. There are handholds and almost a spiralling walkway of vines, almost, that heads up. Riglan checks with Maireagh about Featherfall (!) then says "Let's go and take in the view!". We wait to let a giant wolf spider go past. Riglan gives it something from his pocket, and it skitters off happily.

So we make our way carefully up this tree. It's slow going but not dangerous; the vines are thick and intertwined, forming a surprisingly wide and manageable path. The dog sits at the bottom and Riglan swears it looks concerned - "Don't worry, we won't be long!".

We reach a branch maybe 30ft up, with a mat of leaves and three sprites sat on the platform they've made. They're playing some kind of game. We say hi and don't intrude - we keep going. Another branch about 45ft up is thicker and has been worked a little to smooth the bark along the middle, almost making a groove, so that it's easier to traverse. It leads to a twig/branch wooden platform, that seems to just be another "hanging out" area. Woven blankets and a few things to sit on - round balls of soft moss - are present. We head out to examine it and realise it has a good view of the ponds around and the lighting's very impressive. It's above the mist/condensation here too, with a different quality of light and clearer air. It's a good place to get some headspace. That said, looking up, we can now see that in the boughs of the trees there's a lot of activity and many lights. Riglan does a quick sketch of both the ponds and an impression of the canopy above - he'll fill in details later - and then we carry on up. It's a long way up still.

Every 20-30ft there are other big branches. Around 100ft, we're above most of the flying insects but the birds are more numerous and generally larger. Riglan climbs trees, so he wants to keep going up - and eventually we get to the crown of the tree; the canopy level. Main walkways emanate out from here, rather than carrying on up; and now we see that in fact the canopies are interconnected, with vine bridges and other such things. We encounter an tree-elven ranger - who looks like he might be sightseeing too, who knows! - we say hi. Riglan explains that he's trying to get high. The ranger points the way across some walkways to get to the best spot. A bit of a complex route, but we go for it. Riglan: Survival 4+8 is enough to get there, albeit with a few false moves on the way so it takes a bit of time.

It's a very, very large branch that looks as if there's a walkway in the middle of it - more than just a "groove in the bark", with the widest point is maybe 6ft wide. Riglan's a little more aware now that he's 280lb and doesn't know how much weight things up here are designed for, so he takes care. We see that the lights along the walkways and bridges are kind of patties of bioluminescent moss and algae - not e.g. permanent flame.

We eventually reach beyond the cover of the canopy as promised by the ranger, with a small 10x10ft platform of sorts that gives a view of the high forest, from high up. What a sight - Riglan's first view of the top of the forest. A sliver of light on the horizon, yellow/pink and a deep indigo sky elsewhere with stars out and half moon starting to rise. Riglan: Perception 5 (sigh) + 8, he doesn't see lights beyond the immediate canopies - just forest stretching away all around. The very tops of the Lost Peaks are just catching the last of the light; snow peaks glinting deep red. The Star Mounts beyond are shrouded in cloud. Shadowy flying creatures are seen here and there, echoing cries across the forest sometimes. He swears he can see trees move - not wind! Probably can, too.

Riglan wants to say something profound, but finds himself lost for words. Temo's digging around in Marieagh's bag and finds his last few pastries and some donuts from his pastries. We sit as friends, eating.

After a while, the light has gone off the Lost Peaks; the sky is dark, but for a *lot* of stars and a very bright half moon, our eyes having adjusted. To the East-South-East, Riglan notices a particularly massive tree rising above all others - the Grandfather Tree, he surmises, some distance beyond the edge of the Lost Peaks.

With that, we start to descend. We elect to descend this new, main tree rather than go back the way we came. There are dwellings, better than huts, here and there in amongst the trees; except we surmise that these are functional, probably shared rooms rather than privately owned - no such concepts seem to exist here. Many don't have doors, and there are lots of platforms. There's an impression that walls and roofs aren't generally needed here; weather control? Everything is well carved, or grown, or possibly both; lots of flowing ornamentation, not just planks laid and cut around the branches. It's all very organic, like natural extensions of the tree itself. Some of it is perhaps culturally significant; Riglan recognises elven designs here and there. He is at times reminded of the weird fey-like world "lotus flower" dream from some time ago.

Animals, insects and birds seem to share the habitations with all manner of other creatures - dryads, druids, sprites, fairies and more. Animals don't necessarily behave "naturally" - more just sort of calmly; cooperatively. As if mimicking the humanoid behaviour.

We get down to the root level eventually, maybe 10-15ft above the ground. So wander over the drumming/moon area. The elf ranger is here already, along with a stout human - about 6ft tall, so large / stocky - a few more people show up, a half elf, and something Riglan hasn't seen before - seems half elephant - nobody knows what that's about (actually a loxodon) - wearing an ornate-looking, heavily decorated kind of smock / robe and carrying a staff. Five more humans arrive, dressed like barbarians; and so-on.

The loxodon places a very large drum on the ground in front of him, raises his trunk and trumpets, then starts beating a rhythm. Someone who looks kind of like a shamen joins in on their own drum. The elven ranger pulls out a long instrument with three connected drums, bongo-style.

Temo joins in! Performance 15+7.

Moonan arrives with a large shell of sorts, that works as a drum itself. People who aren't drumming start dancing, so Riglan joins in as best he can; Nethza too; Maireagh sits on the side with the dog, content with that.

Around the barbarians, some kind of spectral swaying trees seem to appear - we get told that these are the local Uthgardt; The Tribe Of The Ghost Tree. They came together many years ago, coming together from other tribes, devoting themselves to guarding the forest. Their largest stronghold is around the grandfather tree.

Riglan decides to chat with them later, when the drumming is done. He does very badly on his persuasion roll to try and be friendly. The do at least talk of the many threats that the forest faces. They protect the grandfather tree, which protects and hides the Hall Of The Mists. The hall may or may not belong on this plane; a series of gateways to other realms - other planes. Not everyone who uses the gateway stays sane!

Riglan: "While everyone else was distracted by the dragon war, perhaps, across the planes, elemental forces saw an opportunity; they were able to build extensive networks of followers without anyone noticing. Today, with so many people killed and so many others focused on rebuilding and repairing their lives, evil rises from beneath us and threatens to consume a world that was so recently thought saved."

Temo: "Almost gives you disaster fatigue, doesn't it...? So - who do I shoot arrows at?!"

The barbarians do recommend talking more with the druids and Treants as they've got access to even more information. We also talk to the loxodon (on recommendation) - **Aramais** - who tells us more about how Treants deal with long memories, literally storing them in caves, using other objects and hints to figure out their ordering in time, but often dropping smaller details just because of the sheer lengths of time involved in their lifespans. He tells us that druids often don't write things down, but he likes to and has many notes and journals. Riglan, excited, show him his own journals and asks if he can see Aramais'? He's told yes, but first must place his hand on a holy symbol - something to do with "knowing him" and knowing his intentions. Riglan complies and there's a glow of divine magic - this is a cleric, but of the gods of nature. Same goals, different means. Inside Riglan's head, Aramais asks questions - "Do you mean us any harm?" is the opener. No! "Do you seek this knowledge for personal gain?" - "No, it's to try and help the forest. And the world, I guess." "Are you a force for good, evil or neither?" - he answers honestly; he's neutral but maybe leaning good now; his friends are definitely a force for good though.

Aramais permits access to his archive, any time. We can always find him in the same place - and he points at the first level up on the big, main central tree. There's a big hollow where a huge branch must have once fallen. He keeps his scrolls and books there. We thank him and depart, as people are dispersing, going back to our moss patch. Maireagh groans and points! There are 12 brightly coloured giant frogs who have gathered on the side of the pond near our sleeping area and they are croaking loudly. Riglan goes, "Oh!" - and Nethza's trying to reassure Maireagh - but Riglan walks up, sits amongst the frogs, and starts croaking with them, enjoying the conversation.

Maireagh makes quite a show of preparing the bed area. Some frogs ask Riglan if we're going to sleep? We are, so the frogs swim to the other side and wish us good night. Riglan thinks they're very sweet. One little one that's last in the row, touches Riglan on the chest and says "you sing from here, but you have to sing from *here*" - patting his stomach. Riglan has things to learn!

Although it's not really quiet per se, it does eventually turn into background noise and lull us to sleep. Quite strange at first. Netzha says she always thought that cities were noisy and wilderness quiet, but perhaps not noisy in the same way. More repetitive and melodic.

As we're settling down, the half-elf from the drumming comes past, sees that we're going to sleep and says, "oh!" - then rolls down some leave curtains we hadn't realised were there at all, so the hollow becomes darker and a lot quieter. We become more aware of tiny glowing things above us. **We drift off to sleep**.

It's a quiet, peaceful night, but unsurprisingly Riglan dreams (Wisdom save 10+8). It's such a strange and amazing place that he's not quite sure where dreams started or ended versus real life.

* Someone is shaking him awake. A group of 8 large tree frogs have popped into the sleeping area and wake Riglan up. They say we should be quiet and we all sneak out.
* "Come! Come with us! We have found a very cool thing". They get Riglan to hang onto the back of the largest frog and leap up the trees.
* High up in the middle of the trunk of one of the larger trees is a hollow full of water. The tree frogs sit around the side of it and start singing (as in croaking). They invite Riglan to join in, and he does. Tries to sing from his belly more.
* Riglan notices that while singing, occasionally a strand of magic seems to fall out of the air, almost like condensation, into the pool. As it hits the pool it looks like paint, diffusing in the water. Riglan is shocked to look into the pool and see scenes coalescing - scenes he is familiar with.
	* A picture/vision, wispy, of the towns he knows - Sungift, Deepgarden, Beliard, Yartar... People going about their business, merging from one town to another.
	* From the sides of the pools the frogs get quite animated and distressed, pointing at the pool. At the side, a muddy strand is seeping in. In the middle, scenes change - people become more angry, there is violence and dismay, then natural disasters start to befall things; crops fail, dry heat and forest fires, flooding.
	* The frogs try to get Riglan's attention to show him, though he already sees it.
	* The frogs try to throw large leaves and other things in to sweep back the mud.
	* A sickly green colour seeps in from another side; this makes them even more frightened and they try to sweep that too.

Riglan wakes up. He sneaks out for real and goes to try and find the tree and pool - was it real? Surival 14+8. He uses a nearby large tree to get up high and look around, then searches using the vine bridges. It takes maybe half an hour but he does find the pool in the dream. Maybe the dream was real? But the pool isn't the same; it has water, but it's not clear and there are large tadpoles living in there. A couple of giant frogs are tending to them. Riglan says, "Hello! Just passing by" - they ask if he needs any help, so he asks if the pool in the past has ever been used to conjure visions. They say it's always been a spawning pool, but they've only been here a few years. Perhaps ask an older frog down in the ground pools, or the druids.

## DAY 80

Riglan thanks them and goes back to camp (he swaps in Speak With Plants over Water Walk given the dream). Nethza, Maireagh and the dog are out outside; she's tinkering, with an audience of a few animals; Nethza is swimming. Temo snores inside.

The half-elf from last night arrives. He is **Orihorn**. He asks if we've slept well. Riglan says yes, but does describe his dream. "That's strange - we could ask Moonan" (who knows all about the frogs and pools). He asks about harvesting herbs too - sure, but don't take excess amounts and only the mature herbs, nothing that's spawning/dividing. As a general rule, if there are five of something, usually taking one is fine. Riglan thanks him and wishes him a good day.

He mentions he's going to investigate the fires; Riglan explains as best he can and shows the remains of the orb. We're certainly keen to hear about anything else he finds. He offers to find Moonan but we'll have fun finding her ourselves!

Riglan decides to make people an unusual breakfast from the natural world here. There are heaps of mushrooms everywhere, along with some fresh, clean tasting herbs and water lilles for sweetness and some things with nectar he can use to dust them with. He gets a bit of interesting fruit too. Looking around for a place to be able to safely boil water, he notices some areas where fires are clearly relit often so he uses that. There's even a stone oven. He boils up the mushrooms into a kind of soup with the herbs, with fruit dusted with nectar on the side. Maireagh makes some tea from leaves she finds, checking with Riglan to be sure they're safe.

We realise that there's more activity up in the canopy than down below now; it seems that at night it's busier down here.

Temo's woken up and overhears talk of finding Moonnan, so wanders off looking around, Maireagh giving him a tube with two mirrors set at angles so he can look down below the surface of pools more easily. She's submerged nearby, looking after tadpoles. We head over and bid her good morning. After some chat, Riglan briefly explains his dream. The pond in the tree, says Moonan, has been there a very long time; the tree is extremely old. Moonan suggests asking the tree! We head over and climb up to get in amongst the branches and leaves, until Moonan thinks we're far enough up. Riglan casts his new Speak spell, which lasts 10 minutes.

"Hello, tree", he says. The tree's responses are abstract, through small movements of branches and leaves, changes in the bark and so-on. He mentions the pool. The tree is aware. He asks about the pond's use in the past. "Hmm. Not my pond. But I have a dream memory of a pond that was I think in this glade as well, maybe even where I am now; it is before me, but I have a memory of it, so I must be a seed of that tree." This gives Riglan an idea that the dream held truth, but was a *long* time ago.

It shares a memory of itself in younger and younger forms in the grove until just a sapling, next to a giant tree which it is connected to. Other small saplings around are from position recognisable as the giants in this grove now; they're connected, they're all from this original tree. It makes the concept of the big "Grandfather Tree" a little easier to understand.

"The sun is out! Are you creatures of the sun?" We don't use it for energy but do like it. The branches move and it pushes everyone, including Riglan and Moonan, up to the canopy - "Here, you can share some of my light" - the sun is just risen. Riglan gets another good look, this time in the day. Perception 5+8 again, same as last night! Weird. A much clearer view of the Grandfather Tree. Clouds are blowing off the Star Mounts. Large creatures fly around the peaks. Birds all over the place; it's busy up here! A fine day, by the looks of it.

Riglan thanks the tree after a while - "I'd better get back to my friends, and leave you to your dreams". We are all dropped off by some platforms and huts.

* Speaking to other enclave members is a good way to find out what's expected of him.
* Treants aren't so good for that though!
* Different perspectives from the barbarians, the rangers or the druids. Those are the 3 main groups.
* Unusual and interesting herbs proliferate everywhere, but the cliffs hold the best - nooks and crannies, climbing them.
* Fungi are best found near the pools.
* Potions can be brewed down where we'd done breakfast or similar areas, but also some of the huts up in the canopy.

As we get to ground level, "Did you find the tattooist?" - she shows us her own ink. She directs us at a slender tree and a route up a more stout nearer tree via a bridge to the tattooist's hut.

We decide to go there now. Maireagh's a little over the up-down-up-down, the dog left downstairs again, but never mind! We see the hut is more of a dwelling in this case; smoke comes out of a chimney. It's open on two sides, with walls on two others. As we approach, someone in well-fitting leather armour pokes their head out. Almost looks like he has a mane; approaches to greet us. He is called **Branvan**. Riglan: 18+8 (if perception, else Nature high anyway). Looks human, but not so much hairy as human; face has a pumalike aspect. Not Tabaxi though.

He sees us looking - he's a **Wild Hunt Shifter**. Rare. He thinks his parents are from a different plane. More common there he believes, but only in specific communities. Riglan's trying to find out more about the Enclave and where a tattooist fits in.

On the Enclave:

* It's a loose gathering of people of similar mindset. The pins are just from someone good at making things who wanted to make it look like people belonged. But there's no big overarching agreement to act a certain way; no leader.
* There are even very different philosophies, e.g. tolerance levels for encroaching civilisations, but the overall goals are common.
* Shadowtop is a gathering spot; a dozen to several dozen enclave members here at a given time. Goldenfields has a lot too, but they do things Moonan wouldn't agree with.
* When Reidoth inducted Riglan into the enclave without any specific rules, it was just opening his eyes to the possibilities and trust in Riglan to find his own path to balance. Other enclave members might lay down rules.
* Balance; protection of nature; life - allowing life to thrive. That's common. Opposition of destructive, corrupting evil. Tend to also resistant to codified, civilised, enforced rigid order - also throws things out of balance.
* Reidoth mentioned this - the Circle Of Alluvium (city/nature balance), the Planar Circle (planar intrusion defence) and Nature's Chosen (nature as a deity; protect all)

* **Orihorn** belongs to the Planar Circle; he is a Watcher. They protect the realm and keep an eye on encroachments from other planes, especially via the Hall Of Mists.
* Some are entirely opposed to undeath... There are others who live in the boundary of wilderness and cities and try to stop one from destroy the other; that's perhaps where the Goldenfields members try to live. A hard job.

So there's no one philosophy, no overarching codes, or leader. This means it's adaptable, rather than rigid; and more resistant to corruption.

**On tattoos, it's a question of story. Once Riglan has one he thinks should be turned into this art, then he and Branvan will walk together and talk of it. It can be non-magical, or if he finds extra required ingredients, would have magic qualities**. Note that magical tattoos would occupy an Atunement slot.

Payment isn't via currency. That's not how things happen here. People exchange things of use, e.g. potions, rescued animals, rare plants, magic items, scrolls; intrinsic value outside the concept of currency. Things of utility or of implicit value in the wild. Just like a day in Riglan's tribe really.

**Temo considers a tattoo of masquerade; Nethza, of ghost step, maybe one day of life ward; Riglan thinks that perhaps one day a tattoo of Shadowfell, or a barrier but it would need to be quite a high level one**.

We say our thanks and goodbyes and go to visit the Loxodon, Aramais. He's in his library. A few very colourful cockatoos are there; he seems to be trying to teach them things from the book. Coconut husk bows filled with nuts and seed appear to be in use as bribery! When he sees us arrive, he says, "Right! Class is dismissed - see you all later" - though the birds don't seem in a hurry to leave.

We while away some time on chatting and his journals. Stories told by trees or animals, things he's heard and recorded. "You just never know what's important and what's not!". Riglan mentions the Planar Circle and Aramais pulls out a few books. He's been trying to piece together locations of intrusions by things he's heard and people he's spoke to. At this, Riglan pulls out his map with locations - we can compare notes. He's been tracking stuff in the High Forest.

Over the next couple of hours, everyone chats and chimes in with memories, theories and other stuff; Aramais is taking notes and thinking about whether any of it makes sense. He's on a grand scale of "if you get enough stories, a big picture will appear". Most of what he sees is confined to the High Forest and - fortunately! - there's not much overlap. But...

...he pulls out a scroll with a story recently written from a Ranger who'd recently been to Irriasil, the recently-destroyed village. That's within the High Forest boundaries and was, after all, an elemental attack with drow. This leads him to the drow & ancient access tunnels throughout the High Forest, which the Planar Circle isn't directly concerned with (it's not cross-planar) but it's a balance and vigilance concern for all. We mention Lanowin and the drow "city" he's investigating, which brings Aramais to talking about his time at Candlekeep - turns out he spent a year there, though he didn't like their rigidity of thinking and organisation. He's got a rough sketch which he thinks shows no recorded drow city under the Sumber hills; it has alleged locations of cities they're trying to link via possible access tunnels to the surface (very hard to do, given the depth of these caverns - very hard to know where you really are relative to the surface). **Since he'd drawn that together, it means that none of the Candlekeep books he found mentioned it. Perhaps it's no longer in use and is forgotten; or is separated from main Drow society**.

It'll be very interesting to see what Lanowin comes up with.

Aramais looks into elemental cults (and asks to come with us when we next visit Turlang, as he'd never convinced that Treant to fetch old memories for him and wants to write the story). **He eventually finds a book on the Temples Of Elemental Evil**. Aramais was talking to one of the older Elven druids living in the North-East who had been visiting. They brought stories of what they remember about the spread of the temples; they didn't know where the power came from, but were just dealing with it as it arose. The legends are about 3000 years old. This particular account, though, is from only 1500 years ago. A slow, seeping corruption had spread almost as far as the edge of the current-day lands of Thay; to cities along the shores of the Sea Of Fallen Stars. It was a "corrupting influence", seeped so deep into the core of organisations and societies that there was a destructive chaos and madness to what they were doing. They had released an Orb Of Destruction in one of the major trading port cities on the cast of the Sea Of Fallen Stars and managed to sink a few dozen merchant ships. This Orb caused a torrential flood.

Riglan mentions how this lines up to his overnight dream of the frog pool.

The elf telling the story wasn't part of the vanguard, so much as the tidy-up afterwards. Apparently, after holding forces at bay until it seemed as if the "head" was cut off and it fell apart into chaos and dissipated, they thought that these cults had been gathering strength slowly, going for at least a year. We talk about how it's worrying that modern-day events imply the renewed cults are perhaps already quite strong. Further, Aramais realises in alarm that a recent story - from an Uthgardt barbarian who'd come down from far North, almost the Spine - had heard of crazed cults of giants acting erratically, emerging from strongholds and attacking. Frost giant reavers, rampaging. This story was received only a week ago, so it wasn't connected to the bad weather. Meanwhile - Goldenfields had to defend against a hill giant raid recently, which is very unusual. They were driven off but it could all be related to this spreading corruption.

If the orb was *meant* to be used is unclear - the fire cult had it stolen, but the earth cult who stole it directed it towards Irrasil and wanted to burn the books there to suppress - we presume! - knowledge of the elemental uprisings in prior times.

We remember our dead Drow, probably a little ripe by now! Riglan is a little guilty to remember his horses, a little neglected by now, but we can take the Drow to the tattooist to ask about the ink and see if we gain any insights there.

"If all else fails, there's one other thing I can do, but perhaps not here in the grove. It's something I can do because of my connection to the nature gods, not because of an ability to work with nature myself. I'd rather respect the sanctity of this grove." - so we agree to try and make sure it doesn't come that. (Talk to undead).

So thank him and go back to camp. Riglan goes searching for the horses. They're all over the place. One still has the dead Drow! They're happy as they can just wander around and be safe. Maireagh now levitates the Drow, so we can pull it along like a Drow balloon. Euw. So we get back to the tattooist. "Us again! We brought you a present!"

Branvan performs a spell; Gentle Repose; to stop it decomposing any more. We tell him in brief the story (he remarks that Riglan certainly has a story worthy of a tattoo, but the orb isn't something Riglan particularly wants reminding of - perhaps when this story has an ending, one way or another). He then gets to work investigating the tattoo. It's a bit of a gory process to investigate and extract the ink used, so that various other steps can be taken to analyse it.

It's a dramatic affair - as he gets to the last stages, there is sparking and reaction from the extracted ink then a sudden emergency of a screaming shadow tendril, requiring us to jump back and for Branvan to cast a containment spell and pour on some neutralising agents.

This confirms that it's spirit-bound compulsion ink. Whoever did that, willingly or unwillingly, was soul-bound to complete a task. Whoever did the work is quiet powerful - these inks are very rare. They're probably not even known in the Sword Coast. "Thay?" asks Riglan - "off to the East perhaps yes, but not Thay. These were known during the time of Netheril, but the Netherese haven't been around for more than 1,500 years."

The techniques use have to be handed down, from master to student. It's being kept alive as a technique somehow over many generations. Whoever did this, if done here, is in hiding and not from around here, *or* the agent (the Drow) was sent from quite far away. **If the latter - who exactly has taken such an interest in destroying an old Elven outpost and a small library? Is there a powerful foreign agent or faction working in secret here somewhere**?

**Temo says, "Perhaps that's the head we need to cut off"**. Nobody knows how to answer.

The patterns in the tattoo are kind of decorative; the ink is the important part, so perhaps the elemental designs are misdirection. Is someone taking advantage of a chaotic situation to hide something? It's feasible, bordering on compelling, but we have no evidence either way. Perhaps Lord Drylund is more important in this than we thought; more than just a facilitator providing a venue for cash.

Riglan wants to give the drow the benefit of the doubt and a cremation is suggested. But before that, we need to speak with him.

We head back to Aramais, get him up to date and ask him to try speaking with the drow. We can take a path out of the grove. We reach a place where Aramais is happy to proceed. He draws a circle around us and casts a ritual that creates a shimmering dome over us, cutting out external sounds. He lays some old coins on the eyes of the drow & places a bowl of petals in hits hands, then scatters a few flakes of gold dust around its body. He lights some incense and chants to cast Speak With Dead.

Riglan asks:

* **Were the tattoos acquired willingly? "Nothing we do as males in Menzoberranzan (capital of Drow nation) is of our own free will. We all obey the matrons and our superiors".**
* **What was the orb intended to destroy? He doesn't know. Just deliver it to the base of a tree that was described to him. The two elves living within were not to escape with their lives. "I had to improvise when you turned up."**
* **Who sent you? "Gromsh Baenre"**
* **Who tells Gromsh Baenre what to do. "Gromsh in Sorcere. I do not know who commands him, but he carries the authority of Lolth. Gromsh secretly is betraying her. He worships another alongside her, which is forbidden".**
* **Elemental eye? "No. Fraz'Urb'Uloo". Aramais is shocked at this and asks the name to be repeated. The demon prince of deceit.**
* **There's time for one more question. Nethza jumps in. "Why did you get these symbols tattooed on you - the designs?" - "I was told to have these tattooed in a prominent place by Gromsh"**.

The spell ends. Nethza agrees with Riglan's idea in a cremation - this Drow was basically a slave. It doesn't appear that he was sent by the cult. Perhaps the books we thought were to be destroyed were in fact not the targets. We can speak to the leaders still here, as refugees, to find out.

We decide to do this away from the grove. We walk and find a clearing where we can safely create a pyre. We wrap the body and set it atop there. Temo and Riglan together stand by and throw fire at the pyre to set it alight, and stoke those flames occasionally if needed. After a while it's burned down to ashes, then Maireagh offers to make it rain via her water creation spell. It's a more controlled version, which lasts for about a minute and lets the ashes soak down into the ground.

"Let's head back", says Riglan, and we go back down. We'll keep the spell Aramais used to ourselves. It's early evening now.

We seek out Irrasil leaders (mother) Lyrei and (daughter) Anhearn Ilira to ask about their books. Their other books - what of them? These stretch back a long, long way; to before Netheril, or before. Over 1500 years ago. They talk about other issues at the time.

* The one we know of is the elemental cult book.
* Another refers to the Dark Seldarine - the original elven pantheon of gods; talks about how the Drow split off. Largely mythology due to how far back it tries to describe events.
* A third book talks of the 3 separate elven empires of the ages and the magics used across that time. 
* A fourth considers the crossing of the veil into the other planes, linked to the elves; the Fey Wild for the Eladrin, the Shadowfell for the Shadar-Kai; the Lower Planes (Abyssal Planes) for the Fey-Ri (demonic, corrupted elves).

None are an obvious choice for destruction by Gromsch. The last book seems the most likely; it talks about people and methods for closing portals and pushing back incursions on the past. The books in total though contain knowledge that isn't widely known; that could in the wrong hands lead to people achieving feats not known to be possible. Perhaps the point was to destroy all of them, or at least as many as possible.

We get food, and at moon o'clock join in the drumming.

* Temo reads the Temple of Elemental Evil book (intelligence 16+3, total 19) 1 success.
* Maireagh is tinkering! She says she's very happy doing that. It turns out she's an idea to help with Riglan's spell concentration instead of storing his spells, and swaps out his ring for an infusion woven into his cloak that ought to help (use reaction to succeed on previously failed Con saves; 4 charges; 1d4 regained each dawn - *does not require attunement*).
* Riglan goes over the nearest cliff face to look for herbs; they glow. He borrows Temo's googles so he can mix up coloured vision for glowing things with monochrome night vision. Nethza comes along to help.

Riglan: Nature adv. (2, 11 + 5). Only 16 total, but finds some interesting herbs - 13gp worth (3d6, 4+4+5).

Then it's another night of sleep.
