# Riglan: Part 9

## DAY 57

We're at Summit Hall, after Riglan's dream and time spent with Lady Ushien. They were sat talking in the garden. Eventually, it gets late enough that other people in the Hall are arriving and starting their daily routines.

We head inside & Riglan fetches the others. Warm porridge with sweet honey, figs, some nuts and so-on. All from the garden.

The knights will start concentric patrols both to search for travellers and protect them.

We eat swiftly and leave at a bit of a gallop. We'll move more swiftly in the first part as the knights covered that, but go slowly as we get further north looking for signs of the caravan. It's a colder, windy day. High clouds throw fast moving shadows that flit across the land. Perception checks arise as we travel further.

* (Riglan) 18: We're past the point where the Ankheg tunnels were. There are a few more animals around than we remember seeing when we came down, for some reason. Some rabbits here and there, the odd wild goat.
* (Hawk) 22: Midday, just past half way - back at the E-W view of the Halls of the Hunting Axe or back towards the gap with the river and the keep. We stop and spend a while checking carefully around especially towards the river for any signs of the caravan since we're having a rest here. Riglan calls the hawk back to scan the ground for signs of people having stomped around! On a far side of the hill there's a track heading down towards the river through breaks in the scrub. Then there's a sense of it being tense or antagonised; the scent of carrion a distance away to the north. Circling vultures, maybe 4 miles north, west of the road.
* Riglan calls the hawk back, tells everyone to remount immediately and we gallop. The hawk stays up to guide them.

We gallop for maybe 40 minutes. Maybe 15-18 miles south of Beliard by now. The horses are sufficiently rested. We reach the point where the hawk flies down and lands on Riglan's arm. Riglan perception: 16 total, a little low after several high rolls. We can see the vultures off to the west. A cloud of ravens too, strange. Broken scrub; signs of tracks being that have been swept. The ground has sweep marks as if hiding something. We head towards the birds, pushing through the scrub. About a mile off road we enter a small dell and the clear aftermath of a battle.

A dozen dead soldiers in black cloaks with the Mirabar symbol of a red axe. Most seem to have died from arrows, slashes and so-on. Some lie in small craters (!) crushed under jumbled rock. Overturned, wrecked wagons are nearby. We recognise them. Broken trunks are emptied and scattered around. Two rock cairns, one large and one small, are about 100 ft away atop a ridge.

Riglan bets 10gp that those are elementals, but Maireagh points out that those aren't earth elementals - but earth magic *has* been used here, so Riglan does Detect Magic and senses strong conjuration, evocation and transmutation magic with a very strong earth component. The craters and boulders were created magically during the battle. We head to the cairns - not magical. They look like very recent burial cairns. We dig to try and see who it is.

Under the large cairn - 5 large bugbears dressed in black/brown leather armour with that familiar strange triangular symbol. Arrayed respectfully around the cairn. Riglan puts back the stones, albeit perhaps more hurriedly and we check the other. There's a carefully wrapped body of a human woman in brown wool monk robes with a strange golden mask, shaped like a snarling gargoyle face - similar to the one we found, but not cheap tin. Maireagh realises it's a plated gold on tin. Footsteps indicate almost 30 people, large or medium sized and humanoid, heading West further into the hills.

We head back down and put in the work to dig a grave as best we can. We lay all the soldiers to rest rather than leave them to the birds.

Riglan tries to convince a raven to fly south with a message for the knights. It agrees on condition of food, since we buried the bodies! Riglan leaves a chunk of the smoked venison for this raven and its friends. We write a short message and tie to the bird's leg. Riglan thanks it, says he owes it one, and it flies off.

We have a trail to follow - so we get on it.

Survival: 2+8 FFS. Still, the trail isn't hard with that many people to follow, even if we're slow. We end up at the trail Riglan had seen via hawk, leading to the river. It's several miles. We end up at the river banks, ostensibly in the middle of nowhere special, except there are gouges and long lines dragged through the mud where we think boats have been dragged in and out. We aren't sure which way they went - upriver or downriver.

Perception, Riglan: 15+8. We can see the opposite bank, though the river is wide and deep here. There's an undercut bank there. There are a few minutes left with the hawk and it notices that a short distance south - a mile or so - is a small trail leading up between two hills, which heads towards the fortified wall we saw on the way from Beliard a couple of days ago. We now can see, just, that there's a keep. The horses can't swim this, so we can't cross here.

Annoyingly all we can do is get back to Baliard and see what we can do from there. Nethza can only fly one other person and while Maireagh could levitate something, and Nethza could tow that along, we have 3 horses, four party members and a very sinkable mechanical dog.

Riglan has a brainwave and casts Conjure Animals L3, 2 x CR 1, to get two giant eagles, or maybe a giant vulture, or worst case perhaps a giant octopus.

Two tigers appear. Riglan thanks them for their service and lets them depart back to the Fey. Riglan concentrates harder, and tries again! Two vultures. Phew. But that's all his 3rd level spells for today.

Now Riglan has to have a very difficult conversation with the horses. He warns the draft horse that it's going to fly, don't be alarmed, just kind of think about heading over directly to the other side of the river and you'll end up there. He says, I'll ride you and help. But first, he has to warn the mules that these aren't real and won't hurt them and will carry them safely over the scary water. Then we realise that the vultures can't carry the mules either as too heavy. Then Maireagh points out that she can cast Levitate twice. So we get some rope and rig up a tow. Animal handling Riglan: 11 + 6, just scrapes the 15 DC. Maireagh levitates the mule. She gets carried with one vulture while it tows a mule to keep in range; Temo and Nethza can ride on vultures; Nethza casts Fly on the draft horse; and Riglan rides it to try and steer. Maireagh flies back for a final trip to get the other mule with a second levitate spell.

So, 2 x L2 levitate spells, 2 x L3 Conjure Animals spells and a L3 Fly spell, along with about 30 minutes, we're on the far bank.

We're too spent to tackle the keep head on, but we can find a place to hide out and camp, and after a short rest Riglan can investigate a bit more with fey creatures. We're about 1.5 miles upriver of it. We head into the hills to try and find a place to hide out. Riglan: Survival nat 20! + 8. We find a thicket hiding an entrance to two small connected caves, a small stream nearby. We'll be able to light a fire and it even has a hole that smoke could come out of near the roof, but only after dark else it'd be easy to see.

It's some time around late afternoon to early evening. Camp is set and we are rested. Riglan sends a hawk to recon the keep and report back (we reckon it's only a 15-20 minute flight out). We meanwhile descend to a vantage point where we can observe the river to see what happens. All we see is an empty barge looking like it's returning downriver. We do notice, once again, giant birds low to the Western hill-horizon circling. Riglan: Insight 18+5; the flight patterns over the last 3 days look like a sort of patrolling, but it's irregular, as if at least some of the patrol is uncertain or unplanned. This seems to be due to extending the patrol in a direction that takes them towards us (but still a very long way away), but it's uncertain / haphazard. Perhaps they're searching for something.

The hawk returns about 45 minutes after it was sent. Once within range of telepathy, the fey hawk conveys that the hills between here and the keep are largely wooded, albeit sparse. A trail leads up from the river into the hills, where there's a crevasse which gradually narrows to a thin gap in the rock. Maybe no more than 15ft wide, maybe narrower, at the pinch point. The trail goes through this crevasse, which after the pinch, opens back up as the land rises, the trail climbing out of the crevasse until it reaches a wall which spans a wide part of the crevasse further up the hill. It's only a rough 10-15 feet as best the eagle can guess, but from overhead the eagle saw no parapets or similar. Not fortified. Behind the wall are plantings - gardens - not a million miles away from what we saw at Summit Hall. It's very not ruined and has a perhaps monastic feel - another missing monastery? Indeed, then there is a square building with sloping, tiled roof, thick stone walls, similar architectural design, also 25ft high at best guess. It seems to be part of the same series. While Riglan relays this, the others search through the big book. It matches stories about the old Dwarven forts of Besilmir look like. Finally the hawk notices that the Eastern part of the building is in ruins but the rest isn't. It can see open air courtyards inside, too, so the big square building doesn't just have one great big roof; it is punctuated by various "channels" or courts, some with statues visible. As if a tiny village was crammed inside this square thick wall, but all planned from the outset and built accordingly. The tiled roofing seems out of place, and Summit Hall had a more flat roof design, so we guess that there have been modifications made over time. The hawk even flew down and walked around some of the courtyards. Brown robed monks with gargoyle masks on were present. Darting between some of the doorways were short, stout looking humanoids. Couldn't tell more - just glimpses - they weren't walking openly, interestingly; appeared to be almost hiding, as if trying to avoid the open. Perhaps avoid sunlight - we don't know - they kept to covered areas, darting between them.

Temo notes that of the descriptions of the three monasteries he read in the Yartar library, none match.

The hawk tries to convey another concept (another insight roll - 18 again! + 5). The hawk elected to not stay too long, since as the monks walked around, they tended to look around towards the South West, scanning the sky. They were looking out for something. We wonder if the big birds we've seen might be part of that.

* If the brown leather people are connected to the hooded "messengers" and that is indeed these monks, then they have some kind of feud or other disagreement in general with the Feathergails.
* Perhaps after those four in Yartar said they would "teach them a lesson", the Feathergails are out for revenge. Or perhaps to find these monks for some kind of pact, but Riglan surmises that the gradual Eastwards extension of the big bird patrols is really a show of might - intended to harass - intentional deviations in the direction of the monks. If the Feathergails were looking for the monastery it'd be easy to find, so they're definitely going for intimidation instead.

We talk about it all for a while, hang out, at around 6:30pm, we notice by chance that the big birds seem to have gone and are not patrolling.

Since we know that the sparse woods aren't crawling with bad guys, Riglan goes foraging. Good rolls earlier come to roost - survival 2, sigh, + 8. He does find some bracken and roots, a bit of wild citrus. Nothing too amazing. Enough to feed us, but we have some of the now-very-old venison too - by making up a simple stew on a fire as it's gone dark enough by the time he's finished foraging. It's actually a really nice spot. Riglan finds it *very* homely. If circumstances were different, he'd happily have spent a few days here using it as a base to wander the hills and document the flora and fauna.

In the light of the camp fire, Nethza lights her fire sticks. Temo plays quiet music (performance 18 + 7). Maireagh sits next to the dog and tinkers with things. Riglan comes up and sits close, puts his arm around her a bit. He thanks her again for her wise words in Yartar about cities being not so good for him, & says he's very lucky to have her as a friend.

Temo finishes playing music and wants something fluffy to pet, so he reaches into the bag of tricks and gets... (d8 -> 6)... a cave badger! He's very happy, and cuddles it to sleep that night. It might not be entirely fluffy, but it'll certainly do.

## DAY 58

We awake in the cave. We realise we didn't even do watch - most of us had just sort of forgotten because it felt so safe, Temo had his sling of warning etc.; the dog is dutifully on watch at the cave entrance. We are awaked through the light coming down from the "chimney" hole in the roof mostly. We have some light breakfast - fruit etc. - then pack up and head out through the woods. We decide the best cover is provided by the woods covering the approach track from the river, since there's an area around the perimeter wall that's exposed but the crevasse entrance provides the fastest approach to cover that ground while e.g. using disguise or invisibility spells.

We cut South and slighty downwards aiming to meet the track at the point near the edge of the woods, then:

* Riglan uses Disguise Self and repeats the illusion of The Messenger that he used before. He casts Pass Without A Trace for everyone. These effects both last an hour. 
* Nethza wears the robes we got from the abandoned house in Yartar.
* Maireagh casts Invisibility on Temo. It'll last an hour. Then she casts Disguise Self to look like a 5.5ft tall robed figure. We opt for the tin mask as the gold plate might be more significant or conspicuous.
* Temo uses chained cantrips continuously to mask the appearance of the dog to look more like a real dog. Illusion of fur.

We walk through the cliff gap - turns out to be a windblown kind of sandstone cliff formation - and up the trail, eventually reaching the wall. 5 minutes of our hour. The masonry is very sturdy, but up close the roof definitely looks like the tiles are new. The building is about 25ft high but the compound wall only about 15ft; looks climbable. The wall almost looks "1 room thick"; thin arrow slit windows are visible. Thick buttresses, we think there are probably narrow rooms inside. It's strangely barren on the ground here; no plants, only a few insects and a scorpion or two. There are gnarled bones of trees here and there - things seem to have died anywhere near the keep. Exposed, windblown sandstone everywhere. The keep / monastery is built into a natural bowl of this kind of geology. Main doors off to the side look very heavy; iron bands and studs. A dusty footpath encircles the edges.

Following that path to the right, we head away from the doors and along the wall behind which are the gardens, towards the more crumbled part of the keep. Stealth rolls all round, plus 10 for pass without a trace. Lowest is Nethza 16 (6 + 10) and Riglan (7, 8 with boots advantage, + 10 -> 18), everyone else over 20, Temo at 15+11+10 (36). Even *we* don't know where Temo is. We turn a corner and see 10ft wide stone stairs going up to a smaller door. A more humble entrance - servants perhaps. We may go in this way, but we'll explore a bit more of this path first. It reaches an area where parts of the wall are crumbling. Looks like a tower; an older part of monastery without the tiled roof. The window slits are bricked up. Looks like it hasn't been touched in a while. Carrying on beyond, we're at the back of the building. Another gate set in a low wall, 10-12ft without a roof, a garden courtyard behind.

Temo goes to have a look. It's a walled garden, but quite poorly kept/overgrown. Overgrown statues look very "realistic". Nobody else there. We agree to try this gate - he attempts to unlock it. He suspends cantrips on the dog and uses the mage hand, to keep invisibility. 15+8 sleight of hand - unlocks easily. He tests to see if it opens with mage hand; strength check via intelligence - 19! + 3. It opens out. We sneak in and Riglan pulls it closed behind us. Temo resumes cantrips on the dog. Riglan examines the statues - insight, 16+5. He's seen these before! They're the same as the strange overnight vision with the pirate-like ship on the way to Yartar. Two of them look like gargoyles rather than humanoids, as if guarding the garden. Three are humans in various poses. As we walk, we see one partly broken. The garden is about 40ft x 80ft maybe. Another locked door leads further in on one wall, but steps on another lead to a raised door with a stone lintel. We spot a third door also. The door to the left of the gate can't have much behind it based on the outside wall; so it's either a tiny room, or stairs down to somewhere. We check that door. It seems to be locked. It's on the "crumbly tower side" (on the 40ft wall).

Temo tries to unlock it with mage hand again. 14+8. It's not physically locked - the mechanical lock is in the unlocked position. The handle turns and it doesn't have the feeling of being jammed; it just doesn't move. Suspected magical; Temo investigates more - 10+6 - yeah he's pretty sure. Temo asks Maireagh if she has any ideas about the magic (arcana 25!). There's some kind of barrier around the lock specifically. A Dispel Magic would work for a period of time, but we don't have that ready (Riglan could, but doesn't have it prepared). We don't have Dimension Door either.

We forced to give up, though we suspect that could be where the hostages are, e.g. in a basement/dungeon.

We note that the exterior entrances all had steps leading up, except the gate we came through. The door across the garden from the room we can't enter is up some steps and at a similar level. This leaves the low door set along one of the long 80ft sides. Riglan tests the door - it opens. Steps inside (sigh) lead up to a corridor about 10ft wide. Two brown robed monks a walking along a t-junction corridor some distance away. He closes the door quietly to avoid being seen.

The door up the steps does not seem to be locked either. Both doors have gaps that a spider could get through. Riglan calls a spider and first sends it in the low door & up the stairs. Down the corridor, various doors and the corridor has a t-junction with a left hand spur. The spider goes under the left hand door, squeezing in. Distilling equipment. The spider comes out and goes around to follow the left hand branch of the corridor. More monks walk past; this area is quite busy. It's seen at least 15+ people over time. Given this, Riglan sends the spider off to fey land for a while and we go up the stairs to the door there, which leads into the main building. Riglan opens the door.

This seems to be the main area of the keep/monastery. It's like the big main area in Summit Hall. About twice the size of the garden. The architecture is very recognisable. Four huge columns of rock form a square roughly in the middle. There are 6 people in the room. An altar is present at the front and 20ft wide steps descend down in front of the altar, going underneath it. We see double doors on one wall, not the external ones we saw before though.

(Riglan: Perception 15+8) 3 of the people are by the altar, dressed differently; one in particular is in "priestly" robes - not the usual brown - flanked by the other two, dressed in the brown-black armour we've seen before, but this time apparently made of stone; plate in shape, but not material. Reminds Riglan of the earth genasi from the camp before Yartar. None of them wear masks. The priest-like man is performing some kind of ritual. As he moves, it we see glimpses of splint armour beneath the robes but, again, stone not metal.

The priest seems somehow either angry or disinterested. Whatever rites he is doing do not seem to involve magic. The two flanking seem to be guards. He's not talking to them. They carry morningstars. They see us but don't seem suspicious.

We want to go down those stairs under the altar, but it's busy in here. To buy time, Riglan starts to walk around the edges of the room; from the door they entered, past the double doors on the next wall, and around to a smaller door that's across the room from where they start. We try to be quiet about it (stealth, Temo 19, Riglan 14, Maireagh 10, Nethza 18, dog is managed by Temo via intelligence check - he modifies his illusion to camouflage it - intelligence 16+3+3 including proficiency bonus).

The other three monks are moving around. Two who were by the door we were aiming for are heading towards the double doors, while another who was near those doors moves past us and back the way we came. No suspicion so far!

We reach the far door. Riglan was trying to listen in on the priest, but only gets perception 4+8, so doesn't hear anything. He does notice however a large lever in the far corner of the wall that's close to one of the guards. We have to keep moving to avoid being noticed so go through the doorway, into another corridor. Just one door. We go through. It's a mess hall, about 50x40ft. Four long bench tables; various cabinets and furniture around to service canteen/buffet style food. It's busy. Sat at one table are two monks, their masks raised above their faces to finish their meals. At a brief glance, they seem probably human. It is nearly midday. A doorway on the side of the room has the sounds and smells of a kitchen. The two who are eating finish up eating, acknowledge us, and take their bowls to the kitchen. They come back out and start laying out bowls along the tables; it'sn early midday. On the south wall is another door; we go through.

To one side through open doors in a corridor is a courtyard with various statues and pine trees in planters that look to be almost made of stone. We see double doors across the way which we surmise lead back into that main room. At the end of the corridor, it turns. More doors. One at the end where we are; two more further down after the turn. We open the nearest door. Rows of beds. It's dark. Two beds are occupied (perception with disadvantage for all of these). We quietly close the door and head down the corridor after the turn. Next door! Peek inside. Dark again. Smaller beds, all occupied. Close that (stealth, 15+0). Last door. Riglan whispers, "Temo?" - and we see the door open via his invisible hand. Brightly lit, no beds. Lots of bed rolls though, maybe 10, next to neatly folded pies of clothing, sandals, some bed rolls have brown coloured robes with bronze masks on top. Everything's laid out, as if people sleep here - but not right now.

There's one more door at the far end of the corridor. The stone here is different - dark, basalt perhaps, arrow slit windows and two monks are stationed on either side of large double doors, sat on stools. We we walk in, they look up and say "Why are you here?". Riglan guesses and say, "We were hoping for an audience". Deception - 5-1 - oh dear. We realise immediately that we've been rumbled. One stands up and says, "What?!" - and reaches to pull on a rope. Roll initiative.

Temo goes first. Realising the danger he launches a full volley of magic missiles, completely exhausting the wand; 3 to the guy who hasn't moved yet (only (1+1+2)+3 damage) and 6 to the other (a high (20)+6 damage). That rope monk doesn't quite reach the rope, and doubles over in pain but recovers partly. *He's not down*! Temo is now visible, but hides behind Riglan. Riglan throws an ice knife, and manages to take the injured monk down. Nethza moves to attack the other. Crit! Takes it down too.

We realise that the double doors are the *entrance* to this complex. There's nowhere to hide the bodies in here, but we manage to get them into the lit up dorm room and hide them there, as if sleeping. We consider leaving for a while - Nethza is very freaked out. With two dead bodies, we have to get moving. We go back through the courtyard to get to the main hall, which is empty. Riglan drops the spider off. The lever is there, it's unprotected... Riglan warns everyone, and they wait by the "escape door" close to the garden. Riglan pulls the lever. A mechanism of some kind activates. The stairs flatten into a ramp, and there's the sound of gates swinging open and there's a loud bestial roar from below. We head out of the garden and out of the monastery. The spider is left behind.

Riglan gets into the garden, but waits for a moment to look through the spider eyes. As he's doing this, two gargoyle statues come alive and move to attack him! Riglan doesn't know, but the others certainly do. Temo sees immediately as the others are near the exit gate, turns, takes aim and fires from his crossbow at the furthest away (adv., hit, 4d6+6 but only 15 total). Maireagh goes for the other one, getting a couple of decent hits, as does the dog. The gargoyle Temo hit goes for Riglan, who is looking through the spider; its bit bounces off his armour but the claws hit, pulling Riglan away from the spider vision and back to the world around him. The other gargoyle flies over to Riglan, Maireagh hitting on opportunity and the dog negating its attack advantage, but gets the claws in too. Then it flies into a big bell in the shrine-like area of the garden - ah, shit; very very loud.

As Riglan is coming back into his own vision at the sound of the bell and the slashing damage, he calls the spider back. The last thing he notices from it is the sounds of commotion from within the keep at the sound of the bell. Temo takes down the gargoyle near him and shouts "Time to go!" running for the gate. Maireagh believes that the idea is to get Riglan out and run, so lightning-whips him to pull him away and stands between him & the remaining gargoyle. A monk appears. The gargoyle attacks Maireagh. Two more monks appear. Nethza casts Darkness in the area in front of them.

Two escape it, and attack Nethza. In an attempt to get away she flies, but has to drop darkness to do so; we are now set upon by a swarm of monks. With Temo and Riglan outside the gate, Maireagh, the dog and Nethza are pinned. The battle goes on a little, with everyone clustered near the exit; it's looking bad. Riglan pushes back in past a monk that's jumped in to block the exit and, for the first time, calls a storm. It takes two monks down. There were 6 in the courtyard, but one had run back into the building. The one who ran in now emerges again, with two friends... The two rock-armour guards. More lightning and battle; a priest emerges; the fight goes on. Nethza is knocked out of the sky. A couple more monks get taken down.

A booming voice comes from the far doors as a woman with a blindfold over her eyes, in greyish, ashy looking robes, with wrist and foot straps, emerges. No visible weapons. She does a kind of athletic forward roll (despite the blindfold) and appears in the midst of our foes. She's basically spitting hatred - surprisingly, not at us, but at the others! "None of you are worthy" and so-on. Summoned out of meditation to deal with mere intruders, that kind of thing. The others look on with fear. This cannot be any kind of good.

Nethza says, "I think we might have found the big baddie!" and throws the hex blade's curse onto the new arrival, followed by a couple of Eldritch Blasts, with one deftly dodged but the other hitting. Maireagh gets hit by one of the stone guys. The priest casts some weird spell that seems to slow down time. Riglan and Maireagh are slowed, Temo, Maireagh and the dog are not.

Riglan manages to get the lightning down and does some damage; Temo manages to get the monk but only a little. He shakes off the slow spell. Lots of evasion and damage reduction there. Temo shouts, "Just give us the delegation back and we'll fuck off!", but she shouts back that she has no idea who the slaves they take (!) are and calls for us to be taken alive - more picks for the mines. The priest says, "Yes Helenray!" - ah, so *that's* who this is.

More attacks. Helenray comes up and manages to stun Temo. Nethza tries to attack but the slowness stops the spell finishing quickly; she does manage to shake off the slow spell and continues to prepare her attack. The priest now casts Shatter - Temo and Nethza are hurt, but Maireagh and the Dog do better. Riglan calls lightning one last time but doesn't manage to get much damage, sadly; goon goes down but that's all.

Helenray hits but doesn't stun Maireagh. Temo comes back to his senses. Riglan drops the storm and calls forth two CR1 creatures. Two large tigers. Nat 1 initiative, +2, so they go next but both attacks completely fail, because in part of low rolls plus one decent roll that was parried, with an attack in return by Helenray doing a small amount of damage. More attacks take Helenray low, though, and she disengages and flees. Nethza runs out to attack and as she does, the remaining stone guy gets an attack of opportunity which would have hit, but Temo casts Silvery Barbs and gives Nethza advantage on her forthcoming attack - and it's enough; Nethza takes down Helenray.

The remaining guard is seriously pissed off and runs to Netzha to attack; Maireagh hits on an opportunity attack as it moves away; the guard's two attacks also miss. Riglan throws a firebolt cantrip - takes the guard down.

Riglan comes back and apologises, but then points out how bad he was feeling about killing these people - right until Helenray mentioned slaves. Nethza agrees and says she's super angry - then marches off inside. We hear her shouting, "where are the slaves?!" and throwing spells around. We heal briefly and chase her in; she's laying waste in there. Riglan figures out that she's been captured and enslaved before. He hugs her a while to try and help calm her.

Riglan realises the spider is back with him. He asks it go and check what's down there (but stay safe!) - it's an Umber Hulk, he realises, but damaged/injured; unclear. It hasn't emerged, as feared, into the room because when the lever activated whatever mechanism seemed to have released it, the stairs down under the altar simultaneously flattened into a ramp and it's unable to get up - too slippery. It's just kind of stomping around at the bottom, angry. We realise that its claws have been replaced by bronze blades - so it can attack, but can't dig - and two of its four eyes have been gouged out - those are probably the eyes that would've been used to mesmerise prey.

The tigers are still there, just in case.

It's a slave too.

It's angry, it's hungry, it's a guard dog / trap, of sorts; people stand on the stairs & get sent down the sliding ramp via the lever. Jabba's palace & the Rankor. Riglan wants to help it, but Maireagh reminds him how dangerous it is - even in its enslaved / injured form.

"Even a monster like that... That's just awful", says Riglan. He turns to Nethza - "Yeah. Fuck these people. I'm glad we killed them. But we have to get down there somehow."

We haven't cleared this place out, yet, either; we have to beware of any other monks potentially fighting us. We've not found out what the small ones, who seemed afraid of daylight, might be.

Meanwhile, Temo looks around. He finds on the priest (name Qarbo, not that we ever knew that!) two keys. Nothing else. As we look at the guards, we see that their armour has disintegrated into soil. We realise that Qarbo's splint mail has done the same, under his robes. On Helenray, around her neck, is another key, on a leather cord. It's small, looks like it'd fit a padlock. There are no animals around, so Riglan can't send for help to Summit Hall.

We find writings at the altar; it's the Shrine of Stone. We find a book which Riglan recognises as the book Qarbo was reading at the altar when we first saw him. Looks like part of a collection; it's numbered. There are rituals and observances in it. "Practices of the Order of the Sacred Stone", lists of things to tell the monks, near the start; but the bulk of the book talks about the practice of the Worshipers Of Black Earth. The Sacred Stone order is a way of hiding the Worshipers Of Black Earth (a cover). This might explain the two uniforms we've seen - monks in robes with masks (Sacred Stone), vs brown-black armour and stone/earth people (Black Earth).

Maireagh notes the sun-faded spine but not faded covers. The book was stored on a shelf in a sunny room. Where's the room?

First things first. Riglan can't leave this creature. He sends down the spider to see how far it is from whatever enclosure held it when the lever was in the other position. Not far - more or less a room underneath roughly where the lever itself is situated. A crude barred cage with flip-up gate; one small door for people exists out of the cage and a larger door for people is in the main chamber's other side. Really the chamber underneath mirrors the room we're in. The floor is compacted earth.

Grisly deal, but as long as this thing is really hungry it's not going be rational; we push down a monk body down the ramp-was-stairs. Euw. The creature feasts. It's still not exactly calm! After some discussion, Nethza tries very hard to see if she can cast something that might calm it; "Friends" spell is on the edge of her knowledge but it's in mind right now; she uses the Shaowfell shard charge (DC10 arcana check -> 15+4). It succeeds but we're not sure what what that means on such a creature.

Riglan tries to convey the notion to that we want to help, but it is Nethza who is befriended. We hastily tie a rope around her and she heads down the slope, with the rest of us ready to yank her out if anything goes wrong. She takes another body down with her. She'll drag it into the cage, to try and get the creature into there at least. The spell only lasts a minute. She tries to be persuasive in her manner (17+4), that we don't mean it harm, will bring it food and want to help and heal it, so that as the spell fades it might not attack; Riglan (nature 14+2) thinks this is a creature has a language, but it's not beast so he can't speak it. But this means it's smart enough to communicate.

The creature (insight roll 19+0!) realises we aren't trying to harm it. Riglan gets another monk and slides down the ramp to Nethza - the creature has been gesturing towards the food as if wanting more. Nethza pulling one in towards the cage leads to disapproving noises; so Nethza pulls it back out. We ask Temo & Maireagh to pull the lever - the idea is to close the cage & give it stairs. The sound causes the creature to react instinctively but it overcomes that. It realises what's happening.

We ask Maireagh and Temo to stay up with the rope. Riglan tries to get it to understand we want to help - rolls 8 + 5 animal handling, not great and anyway it's not an animal. Nethza and he have inspiration from their hugging moment earlier, so he tries again - 17 + 5. This works. Riglan uses some druidcraft so it can see we have some magic powers, and he creates some goodberries. He offers them, and it realises that we're attempting *some* kind of healing.

We ask Temo and the dog to stay up at watch. Maireagh comes down and we work on trying to remove the bindings around where these metal spikes are in place of its claws. Maireagh uses smith's tools and Riglan uses medicine, with a small amount of acid to remove crusted crap around where this thing's been messed up by it all. Nethza tries to keep it calm - rolls 1, uses her own inspiration, rolls 20! - Riglan medicine 14 + 5. Maireagh natural 19 on the tools. One vial of acid gets consumed. Riglan gives it more goodberries and casts L1 Healing Word via the staff (Maireagh does Cure Wounds). We get really good rolls, 24 between us plus goodberries. Its wounds heal; the claws will take a while to regrow, but will do so. It's not in pain now at least. The gouged-out eyes will probably not regrow but it still has sight from the remaining two.

As it finishes eating, it starts to move up the stairs. We call up to Temo to back away and let it move. The tigers flank Temo with the dog defensively. The umber hunk slowly moves up, and Riglan tells Temo to try and get it to push through the side door to the garden & exit. More food there anyway! Temo persusasion 14+10, and it does have to push hard through the small gap as it is large but gets through and gets out into the garden. Food and an escape route. We leave it there and hope it can fend for itself from here for a while.

Before delving deeper, it still being only really quite soon after we got here - maybe 12:30-1pm by now - we want to finish looking around up here before anything else wakes up. We get back into the corridor past the main entrance and this side go through the other side. Kind of a mirror image here, corridor stretches ahead then turns left; two doors on the right, on the left, another couple of archways back into the courtyard, like on the other side.

Now we look into the courtyard, we recognise gargoyles - four of them in a row. We risk having Temo take aim from the window at one he can see, to try and shatter it. Hits once, and a big chunk of rock falls off. The others don't move. He has another go; this time it completely shatters. The others again do not react, so we leave it there & open that first door on the right.

20ft wide, 60ft long - book shelves, desks, a library / study. Nobody in the room - anymore. Temo investigates (only 6+6). He sees that it looks like the people here were making copies of books. We all come in to see if we can figure out more. Can we find where the priest's book came from? We do see the series with the same numbers - there are 20 books overall in the series! But there around 60 books in the room overall, plus parchments, scrolls and other such stuff. Too much to possibly read. We grab book number 1 as well as the 13 we already have and head out. The other door goes into this same long library room, so we go down the corridor and turn the corner, to find a much longer corridor with many doors and corridors. This runs along the "back" of the complex; we saw this and moved briefly around in it from the other end when we first arrived. We try some of the as-yet unexplored doors. The first has a whole stack of wet buckets. Stairs head down from there our of sight. Splashes of water; we assume a wash room or well. Opposite this is the distillery. Sounds like people are still in there? Riglan opens the door to check. Something's boiled over as things are unattended. Riglan uses Druidcraft to put out the fire.

Another door. Surprisingly, locked - but we have a few keys. We try each of the priest's keys. The key on Helenray seemed small, as if for a padlock; it doesn't fit. Temo tries to unlock via mage hand (slight of hand only 2+8) but the lock is simple and does unlock, surprisingly. So we have a look inside. Private quarters, but very sparse. Wooden table with one chair, textured wall hangings - tapestry/cloth; a low stone shelf against the far wall below the window with a thin palette & bed roll, the window is barred. There's another small table, with a couple of stones on it; and that's it. They have runes carved into them. Riglan arcana 16-1, he doesn't recognise the runes but Maireagh does - they're Dwarven - it's not magic, they're just decorative.

Next to it is a large chest. It's not locked; inside are two bundles, wrapped in cowhide. One contains thin wooden slats with scratches of something on, maybe writing; it unfurls like a scroll; we don't recognise the language. The other contains various gemstones, around 100sp in coints amongst them. Maireagh spends 10-15 minutes sifting through for valuables; around 80 stones, roughly 750gp worth.

One last door! Opens into a square room 30x30ft, a mat in the centre with patterns in sand on top of it, a rack of spears and quarterstaffs against one wall and another has a carving of the circle with triangle logo that we've seen before. Some blood splatters can be seen around the room, dried up spit in the sand; looks like a training room.

As we're about to leave, we hear a door open and we see two people come out carrying heavy full buckets of water. Looks like these two have been bringing water out from the well underneath and now stumble across us. They look shocked! One shouts to the other, "get help!" and attacks Riglan. Riglan in response tries to convince the monk to stand down, but the monk is having none of it and implies slavery awaits with a "...fate worse than death..." kinda throw-away line. We have to take him down.

The tigers run off in pursuit of the monk who ran to get help, heading through the courtyard - triggering gargoyle attack. It seems there were two enchanted and two not; Temo's attack earlier was just on stone. A clever way to disguise things. During that fight, the fleeing monk returns, accompanied by another; a shortly thereafter, a Duergar monk appears, flinches in the sunlight and runs back inside. Maireagh shouts out, "Duergar, I knew it!". We fight on. One monk falls. Maireagh is near the double doors that enter the main keep, which Riglan had earlier warned people to watch after the Duergar had retreated back inside. She shouts, "it'll be a standoff - they won't attack us outside, I'll go in!"; Riglan shouts "I'll send the tigers right after" in response, as Maireagh bravely runs inside by herself.

We're out or low on spells by now and HP is relatively low. We do have the two tigers but no new spirit totems or similar. It seems we're to be forced to "clear out" this place completely, without rest and without being able to talk them out of it.

Maireagh and the dog run into the hall. A duergar appears and tries to run towards her to get within javelin range, but Maireagh already had thorn whip prepared. She hits and pulls the duergar much closer, and although it still has room to throw its javelin, the javelin misses. More appear, some going invisible; quickly this is shown to be folly as the moment they opportunity attack, we know where they are. Tactics change - they grow! 10ft+ tall Duergar hit us hard, but we fight on and take a few down; we're looking very ragged though. Maireagh's dog goes down, along with one of Riglan's tigers, though another gets a great opportunity attack shortly after. They're big and hit hard, but they don't seem any more hardy than they were at their smaller size; when taken down, each seems to shrink back to normal.

All told, we prevail - but we'll be trying to find a way to avoid fighting any more today. We're quite badly beaten up, spells spent and the dog is completely inactive, needing full repair. Riglan pets the remaining tiger and thanks it before it disappears as the spell expires.

We take stock for a moment; the Duergar are the same number we counted in asleep before. We spend some time and ensure that all rooms are empty. In the dark Duergar room, we find that each of them had in their personal belongings some money, of sorts - hired help, we assume - they're paid in gemstones. 300gp worth. Temo finds a damaged scroll case on one of them; two scrolls contained within, one of Earth Tremor and another of Knock.

(**Short rest**).

We get all the bodies into the back garden; the back gate is smashed and the umber hulk apparently long gone. We lay the bodies by the outside wall, but don't bury them. Temo goes up to the arcane lock tower door and says "I may as well give it a try!" - and tries the L2 spell scroll. He needs to burn his luck from Temorah to do it (4+3 first roll, 15+3 re-roll, on arcana, requiring 10+2 for L2 spell). The knock sound is thunderously loud! It reverberates through the canyon. We can sense a hole in the protection around the door; Temo sense that his spell has suppressed the magic, but we don't know how long it will last - 10 minutes at a guess, at most. We'll be trapped if it re-locks. Hastily we open the door.

There's a 10ft wide landing with stairs down on the left and up on the right. We run up. Temo is in front. We reach a room lit with flames in the corners. A voice booms out! "*Why* did you use a spell of Knock, when I put the lock on the door because I obviously didn't want to be disturbed?!"

This is a much older part of the monastery. The room contains work tables covered in all kinds of objects, dusty clay jars, curios, shelves full of old books, bricked up windows, cobwebs in all the ceiling corners, soft flames dancing in the corners of the room; an ancient looking figure sits with its back to us at a writing desk, leafing through a heavy tome, making notes on a sheet of parchment covered in arcand wearing. The figure wears a faded, tattered, slightly moth-eaten robe that looks like it was once white. Riglan: Nat 1 perception. Temo: Nat 2 history. FFS. Fuck it, Riglan draws on Temorah - Nat 14 re-roll, +8 perception; he recognises the robes. They're the same robes and design as the Knights Of Samilar at Summit Hall.

Riglan asks, straight up; "Oh. Are you a Knight of Samilar?". The person stops writing and turns around. We see dead eyes; pretty much a skull. Undead? It says, "Oh. I've not heard that word in so long... Samilar" - with some difficulty, the figure stands and walks closer. "You are not - you are not the monks?" - Riglan explains briefly. "You must be young. I don't agree with them. But I no longer kill; we have a truce. They leave me alone. They don't enter my tower or my crypt. In return, I don't poison the entire building!". He explains that they only keep slaves downstairs; most are above ground. He asks, on Samilar - "...**how did you know my brother**?" It turns out he disagreed with the followers about keeping his body there; there was a mausoleum here so they could be together, but they don't allow him to take the body from Summit Hall, believing him evil. "Why do they think you're evil?" asks Riglan - "Well, becauses I'm undead! A lich! An offence to the order." He says he merely wanted more time for his studies, gesturing to the books and writings. Riglan points out that he has himself had a bit of a polarised opinion on undead before; but (insight 10+5) recognises the creature before him is held together by a certain amount of undead, and a certain amount of evil is required to maintain that - he powers his undeath somehow, with life force, living creatures - however, Riglan realises that whoever this is, is telling the truth. He no longer kills and has no interest in fighting. Riglan realises that the being is vastly more powerful than anything he's met before, but doesn't seem threatening - perhaps because we are no threat to him. Riglan says he won't go to the crypt, but is given permission to enter anyway. He can get into the mines that way if he wishes - and we realise this might be a good way to enter the mines with surprise on *our* side.

Riglan asks his name. **Renwick Karadoon**, brother of Samilar Karadoon. He escorts us downstairs; he can't move easily. Seems he only only uses a little life force to keep himself together. Riglan offers some of his own HP since he's plenty (!) but the lich refuses; he doesn't need any, he's fine.

We head down stairs to the crypt below. We see zombies guarding the crypt; but they're more like old warriors. They don't attack, since Renwick is with us. He brings us to a sarcophagus. With a wave of his hand, the lid slides back; it is empty. "Here lies the hero protector of the realm, savior of the North, Samilar, holiest of holy, selfless and righteous and pure". The room is beautiful in many ways, but ancient; although tapestries on the wall are getting quite old and moth eaten (too delicate for a Mending spell). Maireagh estimates at least 600 years old. The Order at Summit Hall is barely 300 years old; his brother and he arrived about 400 years ago, so the tomb was put in a couple of centuries after it was built. Apparently the monks turned up only a few months ago!

Riglan notices some writings and etchings beyond the sarcophagus that an alcove is present, with a placeholder for something not present. Riglan describes the dream to Renwick - the alcove has meaning; it's what Riglan was drawn to. Renwick looks surprised then concerned. "Are you a friend, or foe?" Riglan is in turn surprised - "Friend". We're asked to keep a secret; tell nobody else that we sensed this connection. The connection that Riglan saw in his vision is supposed to be secret. This was Renwick's "Plan B"; that connection is how they will be joined in "the beyond". Riglan doesn't understand the magic really, so Riglan can't speak to other people about this particular thing apart from his party. It's something to do with him being a lich.

Renwick points at a bronze door, slightly corroded; beyond lies the mines - and whatever else is under the monastery. There are rooms with slaves, and creatures wandering the halls. He warns us to *not* go down the "Sacred Stairs", at least not until we know more and are more prepared. He heads back up, and we have to follow - "How will we know what the Sacred Stairs look like?" he asks. "It's locked with a magic padlock." Riglan pulls out the little key. "It's not *this* is it?!" "It could be! I don't know. But it's kept locked in both directions. The Abbess heads down that way now and again; I hear her fumbling around, poor blind thing - so much anger and rage. **Marloss... Marloss** used to be here in this monastery; he and I, we clashed a couple of times, but as powerful as he is, he's no match for me of course. He doesn't visit much anymore. He spends all his time down there now. It's quite a trek; 250m or more; you are not prepared. Not the safest stairs." Marloss probably doesn't want disturbing anyway - **Cult of Black Earth** is mentioned. So that's the group down below.

We ask what he knows about the cult. "Like any egomaniac, **Urnrayle** writes everything down and gets his followers to write everything down again... When he was first here, he used to use his powers a bit more. I think he realised after a while that turning everyone into stone isn't the best way to grow your ranks! That's when he put Helenray in charge. Occasionally he will send his guards and priests up here to keep an eye on things, but otherwise **Marloss** doesn't bother with this monastery anymore. It is, I think, just a cover. A way to get supplies. He fancies himself a Lord!" **He's a medusa**. Renwick asks if we need a place to rest where we won't be disturbed; he points to his old bedroom. We thank him. He opens a door and there's a room with a bed, but of course the whole thing is full of dust and cobwebs. Riglan thanks him again - with the cleaning stone, this won't take long! Renwick asks us to keep the noise down. He's going to work on his theories.

Maireagh asks what theories! "The theories of magic. I have been working for, hmm, must have been - what date did you say it was, again? 1490? - about 100 years ago, I stopped being interested in accumulating items of power and started to try and understand the weave. Where it comes from, where it draws its energy from itself; why it is that it's so unstable. I started my studies during the spell plague - which fixed itself a few decades ago - but before then I did get enough evidence and data to try and work out where the source of magic flows from. I have a theory about other planes, other universes - parallel, mirror, reverse - I've been collecting these books about origin stories, as some of the myths might hold some clues in them. Haven't quite figured it all out yet. Thankfully there are a few less squeamish sages who make the journey to bring the books out to me and I reward them with things that they need."

He bids us a good night and we hang out in the room. He gives us access back to the monastery via on particular unlocked door, which use for water. He tells us there's more about Marloss in his journals in the library.

We spend some hours in the library. Holy texts refer to obscure earth deities and elementals; also books about planes and dimensions. Digging deeper for an hour, we find some personal accounts and transcribed or rare original journals about ascetics, self-denial, monks; and nihilistic prophets, written during the spell plague in a response to the flawed logic of the world then; we also find a cache of scrolls and parchments - two are set aside on one of the transcribing desks, with apparent attempts to transcribe them which failed since they're magical. They're Dust Devil & Transmute Rock (5th level). Another hour passes; having pulled out lots of books, we find behind a locked iron coffer. It's long and heavy. Temo wants to unlock it but it's very complicated and he's not seen a lock like this before, with a very specific cross and triangle-shaped keyhole. One of the keys from the priest seems to match. Using mage hand, standing at a distance just in case, he tries to unlock it with that (sleight of hand, 16+8). It turns out it needs turning one way, then the other, then back again. The top slides open; we find:

* Two spell scrolls - Maximilian's Earthen Grasp (L2) and Erupting Earth (L3)
* Gold cloth priest vestments (hung around neck), unknown value
* Two gold bracelets (Maireagh reckons 30gp each)
* A stack of 15 platinum pieces

There are about 20 books that are not just basically ramblings; they have some value and perhaps selling. We pack them up into Maireagh's bag. We also check the priest's books; volume 13 that we got isn't useful. But volume 1 is interesting. Temo investigates and spends an hour reading it (investigation 18+6).

It's **Marloss' Testament**, which has been copied numerous times. It's full of insights and secrets of the universe. In his shame and casting out and ostracisation from high society, Marloss discovered "the truth" - he was, the book claims, trapped by his own beauty and was punished with a curse. He believed himself unable to gaze upon anything beautiful without it turning into stone. After a few years, he had a dream where he believed the gods were talking to him. He followed it, arriving at the **Fane Of The Eye**, guided over months of travel by nightly powerful visions. There, he was further guided by someone called **Ogremoch** to obtain **Ironfang**, the holiest instrument of earthly power. With it, Ogremoch anointed Marloss as the Prophet Of Earth (as in dirt). With this, Marloss established the **Temple Of Black Earth** - he followed tunnels, his sense of direction now omniscient within the earth, that led him to a long-abandoned Dwarven city and **temple** which was connected to the Fane somehow. From there, he walked up the **endless Sacred Stairs**, and discovered the forgotten monastery which he wrestled from the control of a lich. In this, he anointed the Sacred Stone monastery. Now, he nurtures the **Black Geode**, in preparation - for when all is ready, **Ogremoch the Evergrowing Mountain** shall "remake these lands in his image and I, the prophet, shall rule it in his stead".

It's getting late. We intend to head back to the tower and as quietly as we can set up in the bedroom, using cleaning stone etc. to get it in good condition. However, we decide to fill up with water from the well room in passing. There is water in some buckets at the top already but we head down since we'd not looked before, taking just a couple of buckets. The stairs turn twice through 90 degrees on short landings. There's a small corridor and a door. The large well sits in one corner of the room. Sitting, surprised as we walk into the room, is an ogre - ah, shit. Temo's sling warns, perhaps a bit too late! Also, three orcs, one looking slightly different... One looks for the weapons. There are three doors coming off the room, too.

Sigh. It's late, we're tired, and we're rolling for initiative. Again.

We realise they Orogs, not Orcs; more clever, more hard to hit. It's a rough battle, Riglan down to 2HP despite +10 from the bear spirit and a wild shape, but we manage it. Temo checks the room quickly, too quickly perhaps (investigation 4+6). The commander has a bunch of similar-looking keys on a big metal ring. Hypothesis - they're guarding the slave mines with the doors down here providing access? They have possessions that don't seem to fit with their nature. Temo also finds a book, but he can't read it (some runic looking Dwarvish language). Maireagh says it's just Dwarven, but old; it's about Besilmir, the kingdom in general. The book has a seal on the front inside the cover, saying it's the property of the Mirabar Royal Archives - it came from the delegation.

Wondering if the slaves may be nearby, Riglan calls a spider with his last wild shape. The crypt that we were in is somewhere to the North, and since the spider can't fit above or below the doors, we figure we have to open them a crack to let it out. Temo can't hear anything from either of the two doors in the room (perception 2!) so takes the door furthest away, South wall. The spider wanders along into an area that seems a rabbit warren of mining tunnels. It comes back and goes the other way - and finds down a corridor with a cage and some people huddled.

It doesn't take much discussion to realise we should risk it and go in right now. We get there, Riglan with his hand on Nethza's shoulder; then we risk the light. There are three "pens". Temo manages to unlock all three rooms; seventeen people, **including the Dwarven sage from the delegation, Bruldenthar**.

We lead them out. Nethza is freaked out by it - asks where the children are - there must be some down here, captured? We keep being told that there aren't any and, over time and as we get out, she calms a little. As we get into the well room, people start finding their things - word gets around and people start searching. It gets crowded. We lead people up to one of the dorm rooms. We squeeze them into just one, with only one doorway; easier to keep watch, to keep warm and to feel safe. Riglan finds plenty of food in the main kitchen - a couple of people cook - we even find bottles of brandy in the distillery. It's not great but it's something.

We tell them briefly the story; we'll do our best to keep watch and get them out in the morning. We fill buckets of water, then barricade the door at the top of the stairs just in case.

By midnight, people are settled into the one room. Riglan feels obliged to clean the bedroom Renwick offered, so spends some time with the cleaning stone and apologises for interrupting Renwick but lets him know we're staying out in the corridor. Renwick says he'll be up all night but will alert us if he hears anything. The crypt and entrances there are fairly secure & on the way back, Riglan uses the lever to turn the altar stairs back into a slope. Not impassable, but decent for security.

We set up "camp" in the corridor and establish watch, the mechanical dog assisting as usual. Temo also has his sling of warning. Watch happens; Maireagh, Nethza, Temo...

**...Riglan dreams.  Wisdom saving, 9+9:** He imagines that he's opening his eyes slowly, in a cave. Commotion outside. Riglan realises he has a choice in this dream; he elects to go outside. Yelling, clashing sounds. Bleary-eyed, bright light outside (perception 11+8) - suddenly realises he's very high up, on the side of a very tall hill or low mountain. The cave is on a steep incline. Trees grow here and there but it's pretty steep. Riglan realises at the same time that there's a bit of a mountain range, down to hills, rolling plains; forests in parts, but forest fires burn here and there. Below is a battle. Rocks are hurled from right to left. An army on the right; rag-tag, but very large creatures, much larger than those on the left. Riglan scrambles down the mountain side to a ledge much lower down. On the ledge, he can crawl along a while to a rock outcrop with a tree growing on the edge with a view over the battle below. It's only about 50ft up. Creep to the edge; climb the tree a bit; human armies on the left. Some in armour bear iron weapons. Some with bronze shields and breastplates. On the right, a collection of trolls of various sizes; a section is being led by a two-headed troll, which points and directs trolls to attack things. Ogres here and there drag things full of rocks behind them.

Some archers on the left try to attack with flaming arrows (trolls, fire). The trolls mostly just bat them away, which looks like it has caused some scrub and forest fires. The humans shout in a form of common that Riglan hasn't heard before, though it sounds related. "Hold your ground! Hold your ground! Do not let the invaders take any more!". Occasionally trolls grab hold of fighters and fling them aside, or even capture them and carry them away. "Protect our homes! The final battle has to be here - we cannot let them advance any further! Protect your wives, your sisters, your children!". There is a brief rally, but the trolls are much larger. A ray shining light suddenly emerges from the ground upwards, then swings down into the ranks of the trolls, searing many. A full plate-wearing human male with flowing shoulder-length brown hair has sunlight beaming from his eyes, but is screaming / yelling as if in great pain as he lays waste to the trolls. Beside him, a mage in deep blue and silver/gold embroidered cuffed robes, a cowl swept back, silver circlet with gem inset in the centre; weaves spells, throws fireballs. The light from the man's eyes stops for a moment; Riglan sees the two look similar, as if related by blood. They have their backs to each other, spinning around trying to attack. This goes on a while; they push back a fair number of the trolls, which rallies the army even more. The army is aiming for the two-headed troll. In the course of it, the two men are separated and the mage appears to be overrun by trolls that seem to ooze poison or acid from their skin; a thick spear flies and pierces the wizard in his chest. The paladin turns and yells, "No! Renwick!" and runs towards the wizard, in the process erupting in flame, radiant energy spreading out like a shock wave, clearing a path to the fallen mage. In fury he draws a flaming sword, carving through trolls, leading the charge pushing back harder; the trolls start to retreat.

The paladin rushes back to the fallen mage, looking at a loss at the spear, calling for help; lays hands on the mage, trying to heal but nothing works; tears streaming down his face. He pulls out the spear, blood spurting, pulls a potion out, holds the wizard and tries to pour the potion down his throat. A strange darkness starts to coalesce from the air around. Riglan somehow sees a shifting in the weave - strands of it - life force drawn in from people around, pulled towards the fallen mage; the body starts to turn pale as life drains from it, as spirit energy fills it. The wounds heal and the wizards eyes open, looking up in shock, then horror - he speaks - "Sam! What have you done?!" - and then Riglan feels a shaking as Temo wakes him.

Riglan says, "dammit! It was just getting to the good bit!" - and takes watch.

Dreams aside, nothing bad happens!

## DAY 59

Riglan goes into the room around 8am, most people awake. We all sort out breakfast and packing up. Riglan wants to talk to Renwick while that's happening.

"Whatever happened to the two-headed troll?" - Renwick is surprised and asks Riglan to take a seat and says, "How curious! Tell me about this dream you had." Riglan describes it. "Huh. Is that what happened? I never really heard it from that perspective before. How old are you?" "Only 100." They discuss dreams & how come it is that Riglan would have any of that knowledge; Riglan's first clear dream, about 7 days after leaving his forest (the first dream of the temple outside Sungift), prior to the staff; and subsequent "clarifications".

Renwick says that he and his brother were at the defence of the frontier of what became Waterdeep, a long time ago. Dwarves had been abandoned by their elven allies and they too had to abandon Undermountain, the name they had for the dwarven city beneath Mt Waterdeep. His brother and him were posted to frontier outposts, holding back the invading armies that were coming out of the Evermoors, intent on heading south to conquer the barbarian tribes that were coalescing around the harbour & nascent government therein, being rallied by the barbarian chieftan who later founded that city.

It wasn't one of the great wars, though it obviously felt very important at the time. "Sam made an error. He let his heart convince him that what should not have been done was in fact the right thing to do. He should have let me go... ...He founded that order [at Summit Hall]. But after I was brought back from death into undeath, I could no longer be part of his world. It kept us apart. Thankfully, the fires of vengeance mellowed in him with time; I think that's why he ran that place as a monastery - to teach others the importance of balance and self control, self discipline - rational, careful, measured thought. Not to let the fires of passion consume their actions." (And yet, he notes, it was that fire and passion that won the battle that day and, ultimately, the war). "I feel that once peace is won, the communities, societies and the world that emerges born of that peace often cannot reconcile with the actions of those that brought them that peace."

We talk of war, of justifications for killing, concepts of right and wrong. Perspective, as well as time; what is right in a minute, vs what is right over a century.

Riglan does ask the question of how long until people remerge from underneath; Renwick implies that he might not let that happen - it'll be empty. "If you do come back and seek to head down there, come and pay me a visit." Riglan assures Renwick that he will. Renwick continues, "I might have something lying around that might be useful for you..." and digs around in a chest; dusts off a ring. "This!" - he hands it to Riglan. He pulls out a very old dusty potion too. "Ah! It's still liquid! Remarkable." - hands that over too. Riglan thanks him.

Renwick asks a favour in return. "If you see or come across any books about the nature of magic; the nature of the weave, theory of magic; the magic of other dimensions, I would love to read them."

Riglan returns to the party, still in the kitchen.

We'd better get people to safety. We talk to the Bruldenthar, the dwarf from the delegation and ask what happened. He's sat by himself having a bowl of porridge. Riglan explains briefly how they came to find him. Insight 15+5 - "They're all gone... They've taken them... My life's work..." - Riglan enquires, "The books?" "Yes. The most precious tomes of the Mirabar archives. They're my responsibility. I can never return to Mirabar." He explains that they were ambushed; "They knew to expect us, these monks and the ones wearing the stone armour. They killed all of our guards." "We gave them good burials..." "They took everything I have. We were bundled down into small boats that were waiting - pirate bandits? - in charge of the boats. The rowed us downriver where they docked; taken to their base. They must've been paid. The monks dragged us onto the road - **and then we were ambushed from the sky**. I don't remember much of what else happened after that. I remember running and hiding; seeing Teresiel calling out for help to me as she was lifted into the sky, held in claws of a giant bird... I can still see her face. I could do nothing. And then I must have been hit. I woke up here in the pens. All my books - they were gone. I didn't recognise anyone else I was here with. I don't know what happened to the others." He claims that there will be war if they don't bring what they were carrying to Waterdeep.

He doesn't know if the bird people took the books or not. **Sounds like we might have to prioritise people**.

"Oh... I remember now... They took the books off me - **they gave some to that bandit captain at the keep; they must still have it at the keep**." (We haven't found the keep, but do know it is downriver). The dwarf takes his empty bowl to the kitchen, basically in shock. Keeps saying he's failed and can't ever return to Mirabar.

Everyone is ready to go. We bring everyone back to where we found the cave, hoping the horses are still there. They are! Yay. They've eaten everything, obviously. Riglan has thought of a new spell and casts a ritual of Water Walk. He gathers 8 people and Temo and we walk across the river. He leaves Temo there and comes back, another 8 and Maireagh; again, leaves them there; comes back and he and Nethza escort he horses, dog and remaining ex-captive.

His spell is strange; it almost freezes the water, like time stops; not cold, just not moving, but an element of frost in footsteps that pass over. Moving 20ft at best with this tired and large group, and it's at least 11am. We follow the track back, apologising to Bruldenthar for taking him back across the battlefield - at least he can see we buried people and tidied up. Back on the road, we head South for Summit Hall. Security and defence. It's late by the time we get there - 6-7pm, if not later. A long walk. Everyone is tired.

As we approach, we're noticed and we see a flurry of activity. We get to the gates, which are closed, with two guards above the gate - "Halt!", etc.; Riglan explains; the gate opens & Lady Ushien is there. We're ushered inside. People are sent to try and figure out how to accommodate all these people tonight. Lady Ushien offers us food. Yay. Everyone kind of feasts in the great hall, simple but good food. Hell of an upgrade for the ex-prisoners. Many will sleep in the hall as furs and blankets are laid out around the large central fire. We are offered a room and gratefully accept. The Hall will find out who everyone is and find a way to get people home. Clerics and paladins are set to work.
