# Riglan: Part 8

## DAY 50

We are in Yartar. We awake in the inn.

Riglan wakes first - his internal alarm clock for being on the final watch of the night has gone off! He lies in bed. His mind wanders to the camp fires. It's dawn and we forgot to draw the curtains. Riglan looks out again to the same place. The campfires are mostly out, just a few still lit or smouldering. They're in the shadow of the nearby hills. He's facing NW with the sun rising behind, in the E. There are lots of tents, quite colourful, pitched on a field that looks like maybe some kind of show ground, beyond the houses - North of the city there are some buildings outside the city walls, between the road and river.

Riglan farts noisily (and perhaps not safely; he reaches for the cleaning stone). The others wake. Everyone slept well. It's been a few days since we slept in beds without needing watch. Marireagh goes, "WHAT is that smell?!" and throws open the doors to the balcony. Riglan acts surprised and says, "oh, look at all those tents! We should go and check that out".

It's very early (not much after 6am). Temo isn't too impressed at the early start - Nethza and Marieagh don't mind - but Temo uses it as an excuse to wear his new clothes for a long day. As we head out we see some people already in the inn's dining room, but we want to see the city in the morning so say hello to the two innkeeper brothers on the desk (we met one of the wives yesterday) and continue out. It's just past midsummer.

The road is already quite busy. The market smells inviting. One building on the north side in particular has queues and amazing smells; the sign says "Gateway Bakery" and Temo is very excited. We queue; it moves quickly. In a few minutes we're inside. Maireagh tells the dog to wait outside. Temo leads the way. Panelled leaded glass doors lead to all kinds of smells and a cornucopia of baking, both sweet and savoury. The queue snakes around various rows of display shelves and tiered tables stacked high with goods. Temo figures it out right away, ducks around, grabs a basket, hands another to Riglan and starts filling his basket. We eventually get to the counter with a young female halfling, maybe only 14-15, looks like the rest of the family back there too, parents through to grandparents. We realise that most of the building is bakery, with only a relatively small portion given to the "shop floor". Racks, tables, clay ovens; everything's very fresh.

Between Temo & Riglan, it's 165 *coppers*. As we pay, the girl's mother is rapidly wrapping things up in bits of paper and boxes. We're wished a good day and get swept along with the flow of the queue. Behind us are Maireagh and Nethza, who'd mostly looked - we'd bought so much that they didn't think they needed anything. We head to the Morning Spire to see if there's anywhere around there to sit and eat with a river view. We soon realise that the river isn't the cleanest - a certain smell. Riglan optimistically dips the cleaning stone into the water and activates it. The cleaning stone remains clean - no impact on the water. Using the map, we head back in and across through to Beliard Way then out to the Amurin Stream, where the map shows a small bridge and wooded area. It's not quite so picturesque in person but smells a lot better and it'll do. There are some farms across the stream, with a few windmills dotted around.

Remembering that we were meant to be looking at the tents North of the city, we head back up. Passing through the market, we see it fully set up. There are lots of stalls - including one with animals. Some are cages and some birds are there but have strings tied to their legs. There's a parrot which just keeps repeating phrases in Elvish when Riglan tries to talk. A sleepy caged owl nuzzles through the bars and seems friendly but sleepy. A monkey is manic and just wants to get out and be fed. They're overall not exactly overjoyed at being caged; they'd kind of rather be free; but at the same time they don't have to struggle for food. If freed, they'd probably do poorly in the wild anyway, especially those displaced a long way from their homes. That's the exchange. Like our mules or the draft horse. That said, the monkey, for example, is pretty manic; it's very, very long way from where it must've been born. Riglan can't really help. He politely thanks the salesman, who says he'll be here for another 3 days.

So we carry on up the road. That's not fun. But he can't really help. It's going to be a difficult thing to write about in his journal.

We head out the North gate on Morbryn's Road, but knowing where the tents were, we take a side-road past some buildings, down a hill to a huge field. We realise it's much bigger than we guessed from the inn; 40-50 tends, some large pavilion sizes and some smaller, with some kind of central arena or assembly area. Nethza says that the people here look like they're "from all around" - a real mix. We perhaps saw some at the wine/beer place last night. Not everyone there seems to be camping; so we head down to the arena-like area. There are festive banners around with festival names including a reference to "summer hiring fair", some merchants selling out of carts, and groups standing around outside tents chatting. Riglan guesses, based on Maireagh talking about "hiring" people for Owlbear Tower, that this is some kind of job thing. We notice some scoreboards around, as if friendly competitions have been taking place. Here and there are job boards, kind of triangular pyramid wooden affairs with the three faces covered in notes/posters. There are all kinds of people here, including a few adventurer types. We think we can even see a new adventuring party being put together - we overhear them asking about each other's skills as they're all interested in the same job board posting.

We estimate there are around 100 people here. It's busy, even at 8-something in the morning. Early bird catches the worm!

This could be useful - but right now, not what we need. Riglan does notice, though that there is an archery competition, taking teams of 3. A sign says, "Hiring fairs are the perfect opportunity to practice for the Shield Meet!" - Temo is curious and tries to ask someone. Takes a while but he finds one. The hiring fair happens for two consecutive years, then on the third year there's a Shield Meet, held here on the assembly grounds. The Castle of Yartar overlooks the field, which is why it was always traditionally done here. It's just a huge tournament. Great prizes and wealth if you're skilled! We go look at the archery competition, to see what rules apply - can he use his bow?

* Hit something from 100ft away
* Must use the regulation shortbows (deliberately set up to make it difficult)
* Prize pot that day depends on how many join (27gp right now for the current event)
* Teams of 3 only right now, but there's an individual competition coming up later

Temo signs up. 1gp. Erk. We wait around a while just sort of wandering around and then at around 9am a bugle sounds; we realise from people moving about that this is the next round of competition so we head back. 12 targets are set up - there are 12 participants. Temo is number 5. Some people are even collecting wagers.

* Round 1: Temo takes aim to negate disadvantage. 17+8! Bullsye, the best so far. There are shocked murmurs and a flurry of wagers (player 1 did well, 2-3 not, 4 better still; then after Temo, 6-7 poorly, 8 almost bested Temo, 9 does alright, 10 takes aim in way that's familiar to Temo and also gets the bullseye, 11 goes wide, 12 only does moderately).
* Round 2: The bottom 6 are culled. 4, Temo, 8, 9, 10, 12 remain. 4 does OK; one ring out from bullseye. Temo only gets 9+8, so same as 4; one ring out. 8 not so good. 9 does alright. 10 (half elf) hits a bullseye. 12 misses.
* Round 3: The bottom 3 are culled, leaving 4 (Calorshite skinned human wearing a robe), Temo and 10 (half-elf). 4 does OK. Temo rolls 19+8(!) so splits the arrow he already had in the bullseye! Half elf is already aiming and composed, another bullseye.
* Round 4: Temo and half-elf. Rolls a 6 (+8), boo. Half elf gets a 19 (+6)

The half elf comes and shakes Temo's hand, compliments him and goes to get the 12 gold. He's a little sad he didn't win, but at least he represented himself well. There's a bit of frustration at not winning, but splitting his own arrow was cool and a first for him (given his +8, this was the best shot of the competition, after all).

Maireagh has an idea before we leave, to take the Etherium that'd been used for Riglan's old light bee (now a pendant) and rework it into **taking a 3D image / photograph, like we have for Danain**. So that sounds fun! We stand in front of his archery board with the split arrow. Temo is pointing at it. Maireagh pull over a wooden barrel and props up her shield against it as this is the arcane focus that "takes the picture", and Riglan is a little crouched down to make sure he's included. It can be shown again as a kind of minor illusion, or even projected at a larger size onto a flat surface.

It's past 9, so we consider trying to sell the remainder of our sellable stuff before starting to think about last night and the people we might see about our mystery. 

We ask around and realise there's a jeweller area incorporated into The Pearl Handled Pipe (in the manner of the similar room at Font Of Fancy in Deepgarden Keep). It's a grand, beautiful 4 storey building at the end of the market, with outside seating areas with shade umbrellas and a velvet rope separating it from the main street; there's a grand entrance with gold trim and stained glass, leading to a 2 storey high entranceway with grand staircases at the far end and painted porcelain floor tiles throughout. There are very expensive looking shops either side. One has lots of confectionary and tea; the other is jewellery. Quickly checking to make sure we're clean (!) we go in.

Two half-elven staff are present. A younger male approaches and welcomes us. "The Vault Of The Pipe". Temo claims he's recently inherited some wealth, enough to hire 3 bodyguards (!) and talks about the gems, jewellery and Mormesk's pipe. The guy immediately seizes upon the pipe, even though Temo wanted to start at the "more mundane" things. Temo shows the pipe; Riglan can't figure out how impressed this merchant is - good poker face (or rather, a bad insight role for Riglan; 7+5). The guy double-checks that Temo really wants to sell it; Temo says yes, for the right price! Dreadful persuasion roll; 2 (+10), lowest Temo can roll given he re-rolls natural 1s. We are offered 14 platinum. Temo says he'll think about that, while we look at the other items - miscellaneous gems and jewellery (29 platinum rough value estimate). Persuasion 10+10 and we're offered 30 platinum. Temo agrees at an overall fair deal.

As we leave, the half-elf is putting the pipe with others in a display case. We get the feeling it's not for sale; it's a collection. A fitting resting place perhaps. We wonder if Mormesk would've approved.

Maireagh wonders how much a room is for the night here, but doesn't like being laughed at! Riglan marches up to a doorman and politely enquires. Riglan notices in passing that he's quite intrigued by the staff. So before the doorman answers, Riglan says, "oh yes, the staff - unusual, isn't it?" - and shows the living part at the end, then uses Druidcraft into that part to make it grow a small flower, which he hands to the doorman. The doorman sighs and says, "That's so magical! Heh. You don't want to stay here! People like us have better things to do with their money. Besides, the people here aren't great. But for what it's worth, the cheapest room in here are 25sp a night and the suites are 10gp a night". He does say that, at least, the dining room is very good. Or at least, very fancy! But he personally prefers One Foot In The Boat. That was the lively place opposite Happy Hall.

We head to Lionshield Coster, to see if the dragon specialist has turned up. She has, but there's no buyer right now. She does at least weigh the claws and some left over scales. The scales at least can be gathered and over time a batch assembled for making armour, which is always an easy sell. All in all, she estimates a sale price in lieu of any immediate buyer "downstream" of 145gp for the claws and 35gp for the scales, though we could sell them ourselves of course (1gp for a market trader licence). We don't really think that we're the market trader types - except Maireagh, who used to have a stall! - and go for it; she has 18 platinum on hand.

She recommends Wallheim's for the dragon blood. While Eskilindrar's is the respected sage in town, Wallheim is more inventive but very - eclectic. Not too charismatic. Pretty weird. Sounds perfect!

There being no time like the present, we head that way, taking back streets for sightseeing. It takes about ten minutes to get there - it's closed. "Open at 6pm". OK. Well, we can at least check out Eskilindrar's in the mean time, if that's open. Back down the road we go. It's actually getting towards lunch time, and One Foot In The Boat is already getting a bit of a queue. The bakery, on the other hand, is pulling its signs in, apart from a table outside with a sign saying "2 coppers each" with a basket of some remnant pastries with an honesty box. Temo finds a couple of items, wondering why anyone would queue up and pay more! They're not warm, but still just as delicious, he reckons.

It's just gone noon - the church bell rings the hour.

We carry on to Eskilindrar's. He's a human sage, maybe 65yo. The shop is very tidy, with rows and rows of back-to-back shelves of books, huge maps on the walls and in cases; a young female gnome assists. The doors lead into a 2 storey high entrance foyer, with lights hanging high that are circles of iron adorned atop with not candles, but - Riglan recognises - continual flame globes. The floor is a mosaic of the local area as a detailed map. Rare objects are in display cases here and there. On one side, the book cases are 2 storey high with ladders on rails to reach high. On the other, there are single story bookcases and on a floor above, pigeon hole compartments with rolled up parchments - maps, presumably. Eskindrar stands behind a desk, with standing-height book stands either side. There are tables and more bookshelves behind, then a glass partition and a human, gnome and elf apparently at work on fine-detailed restorations or repairs, using magnifying lenses to see what they're doing. A spiral staircase leads to the second floor which leads to the map sort-of-mezzanine, then up to a third floor above. The floor encircles the area above, but in the middle, the foyer is in essence a full three storey high - the lights come down on ropes from there.

Eskilindrar welcomes us. The gnome assistant is up on a ladder sorting some books. Nethza is captivated; Maireagh is thrilled; Temo too; Riglan feels a bit out his depth. "Feel free to look around - if you have any questions, come and get me". Riglan's eyes do get caught by the maps so he heads gingerly (he's heavy!) up the spiral staircase. "Maps of the continents" / "oceans and seas" / "regions of Feyrun" / "cities through the ages" and so-on in sections. A big section at the end, "Various treasure maps".

Riglan looks in "cities" to see if there's anything about the old Dwarven cities that the archaeologists are going for, but they're just "modern-day" cities at various stages. Instead, then, he tries for a detailed map of the Dessarin Valley. He finds one with Yartar near the top, Goldenfields near the bottom. He also looks for the area around Shadowtop Cathedral; not much unfortunately for things *within* the High Forest. He tries for the "strip along the spine" - Mirabar, Silverymoon, maybe even Luskan - some detail on the Savage North; but they only really have road details. Too remote. Last try, then, is for the Sword Coast itself - he's heard mention of both Waterdeep and Baldur's Gate and has them on his whole continent map but only in vague locations and without a good understanding of how they connect to where he is, or how many days travel anything is. While looking, he actually stumbles across a Northern region one that's quite good - doesn't go as far as Baldur's Gate, but East-West does go as far over as a big desert.

He takes that map (which is a "general feel of where things are" map but has a symbol on it that's something to do with approval by the Lord's Alliance, which Riglan has heard Sildar mention them more than once) and the Desarin Valley map ("A Navigator's Guild Map" - measured for distances) downstairs and enquires about price. The Desarin Valley one is 5gp, the other is available in a very large or more manageable size, with Riglan having taken the latter, at 25sp. Riglan thinks that's OK and pays for both without bothering with bartering. He takes them to a table to look closer. Seems like he might've covered almost 200mi just from the Southern edge of the Lurkwood to Yartar.

As he's doing this, out of the corner of his eye he spots a bin with a sign, "Try your luck! Treasure maps!" for 1gp. He picks one at random and pays for it. When he takes a closer look, he can't really make out where it's meant to be; he doesn't recognise the landmarks.

Nethza and Maireagh are browsing generally; Nethza looks like she's found a very interesting section (she's in the dictionaries). The dictionaries include early Elven to late Elven, to help with that big book we were translating on the journey. There's nothing for Goblin - they tend to not write. Orcish is a better chance, but he doesn't have any right now. Temo finds the magic section and just thumbs through things.

After a while, with some things purchased, we thank Eskinidrar and head out. Next, randomly, Danath's Pickles, Nuts and Food. It has a kind of round tower entrance then a large open shop of assorted goods. Two storeys, but we can't see up from where we are. Lots of fresh produce downstairs. Super-organised, everything in boxes with sticks in front with prices on. Signs list place names, here and there. It's quite fancy. There's a pickles section, of course. We first look at nuts. Riglan sees quite a few familiar nuts which he can find in the wild, and realises that e.g. a box of nuts he can find himself are 25gp. It's probably not worth buying anything exotic at that price. There are some beautiful apples of various kinds, but some particularly impressive ones are 8sp each. As for the pickles - the jars a large, about 2lb, but 6gp each.

"I think we've wondered into... a fancy place", says Nethza. Temo goes, "Yeah! This place is *nut*s!" - channelling Fozzie Bear. But for all that cost, there's a bewildering variety here and it's spotlessly clean.

Riglan suggests we buy a jar of absurdly expensive pickles. The others aren't convinced. And it does seem a bit *too* frivolous. So we abstain and head out.

We think about lunch; we still have lots of pastries. Maybe tonight - fish - we were told to have the fish at Yartar. We eat some pastries to pass time while we think about our next move; it kinda looks like research. We between now and six, so we commit ourselves to about 4 hours (with breaks) of investigation. Maireagh and Temo head to the archives to study; Nethza and Riglan go to the rumour mill that is the Festhall, to try and overhear.

Maireagh rolls investigation (19+8), Temo (12+6):

* Temo tries to find references to "Fane" or local monasteries; he finds 3. The longest serving is the Monastery Of The Masked Sisters (200yo), travelling healers, ascetics; white robes, expressionless masks. Monastery Of The Open Hand, operating within cities such as Yartar (based in the countryside somewhere) - charity organisation, somewhat philosophical; and a limited reference to a monastery much further down south, the most recent account about 160yo; people from the Far East who travelled into the area & set up a monastery (NOTE: We later realise that this is Summit Hall, when we visit there). No records seen since. No references to "faen" (he knows a faen is a location; an old kind of temple, a mystical location).

* Maireagh tries to find out information about Lord Unrail. There are no references anywhere.

Meanwhile, Nethza and Riglan head to Festhall. It's a massive building; converted warehouse. It's smelly and noisy! Inside, it's got stables, cart storage and other such subdivisions. There appear to be rooms - perhaps people even stay here, renting rooms? Upon entering we see lacquered, huge river fish and turtles mounted on the walls. The main chamber has 12 long tables with a long bar and kitchen at the back with food coming out. Some gaming tables are off to the side; there's a dart board. It's after lunch now so not as busy as we guess it would've been but is still lively. Some people seem to have been drinking a while, others have just got off work; sat at long communal tables in small groups. A door to one of the private rooms opens - they're sliding doors, surprisingly, on rails like sliding barn doors; we see a table inside.

We find a drink to try and fit in, so head to the bar. We flag down a bartender. Riglan asks for a chilled lager, since that's what Nethza likes. Large casks are set into the wall behind; he pulls some drinks. 8cp. We look around at the communal tables, finding a spot surrounded by as many groups as possible that we might overhear. So we sit and drink slowly, pretending to make idle conversation - sat side by side. We're facing the private rooms along one side. We notice that people are eating nuts out of tin cups - the shell them and throw the shells onto the floor; we copy! The barman gave us a cup of the nuts when we got the drinks.

And so, we listen. Perception: Riglan nat 1 (!), Nethza Nat 4. Oh dear. It's just too noisy; too many conversations to hone in on. Especially with Riglan being not so good with crowds still. After a while we finish the drinks, flag a wait staff and get another. It's served with more nuts. People come and go. Loud  people who were sat next to us leave, which helps.

We listen more. Riglan - Perception Nat 20 (!) +8. Interesting RP coincidence! He hears:

* One group talks about a job that went bad. They were told that they should be somewhere and "everything would be sorted" but it wasn't. Another says "That's just Yartar! This place could be the next Waterdeep if it wasn't for all the in-fighting - no-one's actually in charge. At least in Waterdeep, the Zhentarim are in charge. What's the deal with this place anyway? Who are we even working for?" "We're clearing working for The Hand" - then they argue about who The Hand is working for (someone? nobody?). Riglan surreptitiously looks over - 4 young to middle-aged women dressed differently; e.g. nondescript mid-20s maiden; another, simple black leather armour; another, a slightly fancier outfit with an overcoat; and a slight, older, maybe half-elven lady.

* Nethza indicates a private room across the way with an open door. Two people in black leather armour are inside, sat next to each other with a couple of empty seats across; two people are leaving the room. Nonchalant, a man in a long brown robe with a drink walks past the door as if going for another drink slides in & draws the door closed. We can still see through a gap in the door; he sits, but we can't hear him. The three are talking. Riglan asks Nethza to look after him for a minute and calls a small lizard familiar, sending it into the room and listening through it. It goes up the wall and climbs atop the door. The conversation - "...I'm pretty sure, well, no, I'm absolutely sure; my information comes from a good source" (brown robe guy). The other two - one at closer look has quite expensive looking studded leather armour, dark skinned, purple colour, maybe elven; other is human male, very pale, long black hair. Both have crossbows; two bags and a satchel are on the table. The purple skinned elf - possible Drow, but not the same as Black Spider - "...alright, well we don't want any interference so do whatever you must." Human: "Do you think they know?" Brown robes: "I dunno, I wasn't asked to find out that kind of information - I was simply asked to keep an eye out for any obvious spies. What should I do?" Drow - "Eliminate them!"  Human: "No! No, hold on - we don't want blowback - keep an eye on them but make sure you're not comprised. Do it from a far . We'll organise someone to get closer. Remember, we want to be absolutely certain that you haven't been spotted; if you have, we know how these Harpers operate; they'll start a campaign of deception to throw you off the scent and we wont' be able to rely on your information. And if we have no use for you, then our arrangement is, naturally, terminated." Brown: "But you promised me..." - Human: "We always keep our word." (puts bag of coin on table). Brown : "I'll see what I can do. What is the pay?" Drow - "it's part of the job we've paid you for." But human offers 100gp addition if info is good. They have something to drink & the brown guy leaves. The two remaining look to each other - human: "Do you trust him?" Drow: "no, I think he's outlived his usefulness" human: "I thought so too." Drow: "We need to find out where and when this sale is happening. I want to get my hands on that orb. We *must* have that orb. We need to beat the Harpers and anyone else to it." They discuss what price it might have, but don't know. They mention that The Hand is bidding too, also The Order Of The Kraken. They finish talking. The lizard sees that out of the satchel on the table, a snake is emerging. It coils up the human's arm and perches on his shoulder. Then small wings open. A flying snake. The lizard freaks out and retreats - Riglan makes reassuring indications to it by thought, thanks it and temporarily sends it to the Fey world for safety. The two people leave.

Riglan comes back to his own senses. There's a commotion nearby. Someone has collapsed at the bar. The brown robed guy has fallen - presumably poisoned. Riglan heads over, feigning being shocked; medicine 7+5; there's some black frothy spit on the corner of his mouth and his eyes are rolled back in his head. He's unconscious with no pulse; he's not breathing. Riglan tries a 3rd level healing word (3d4 + 5, +d4 from staff; 14). No change. Riglan says he's sorry, but the man has died and he can't help. They take the body to a room and call for the city guard. Riglan returns to Nethza.

An interesting two hours so far. More drinks! Con save: Riglan 16+4, Nethza does OK too. Hour three comes up. DC apparently 25; 15+8, 23, no good. Nothing new. Just gossip and stuff. After that, we stagger in the general direction of the Archives, a little merry. We find the others. Once they finish up with the books, it's well past 4pm, and we head back to the safety of our room at the inn to talk.

We exchange information, on everything we found - or not, e.g. lack of Unrail. Temo wonders if he's heard of any of these - but History (4+3), that's a no. He does remember that the Zhentarim is also known sometimes as the Black Network.

We do know one Harper - the priestess at Happy Hall. So in the remaining hour or less until Wallheim's opens, we head there and try to chat. She doesn't tell us much; seems grateful for the information; but knows nothing about any orb.

We head up to visit Wallheim's, electing to have dinner after - we're early, so just sort of hang out until it opens. (One Foot In The Boat is busy). Quite a while after the bell tolls 6, there are signs of activity. The sign gets flipped to "open", and lights get lit inside. We go in.

The building is long and narrow, tucked up against the city wall. It seems to step back and upwards in three tiers; single storey at te entrance, then second story further back and third storey beyond. There are some side buildings too, but it's still only wide enough for the door and a narrow window on either side in the main body. Inside, it smells strange. A lamp is lit on a sideboard. There's a place for umbrellas, a big mat that says "Wallheim's" and some stairs that lead both down and up. We decide to go down. As we start to go down, a voice calls out, "Hello? Someone there?" - we go, "is that Mr Wallheim?" - "MISTER Wallheim? A crone appears downstairs, lighting lamps. There isn't a MISTER Wallheim. This is called Wallheim because it's built on the wall!" - she announces herself as Aneeria. "This is my shop! Can I help you?"

Aneeria is short, ish, but could be a tall dwarf or short hunched human. She's somewhere between 40 and 100, if human! Bad skin, hunched but somehow standing proud; could just be a body shape? Really thick wavy but dry looking hair, black, brown, streaks of white and grey. She's wearing a dark green coat, thin material, lots of pockets. The coat almost looks wet or slimy somehow. Could just be reflective, but it's very dark in here - lamplight only.

Riglan likes her immediately. She says she's met firbolgs before, and plucks him a mushroom off her shoulder (!) - "This might remind you of home?" - it's a mushroom that he recognises from his home forest, safe to eat. He thanks her and tells her about the black dragon battle. She goes further back into the shop (which keeps, strangely, going *down*) and finds a big book, finds its name, and crosses it out - "useless dragon!" - then asks us what we harvested. A bit disappointed that we've sold the scales & claws. We show the 7 vials of blood and she starts making various checks and looking in books.

She offers healing potions or a corrosion resistance potion; 3 vials would make 1 potion. We give her the 7, since the last is surplus to requirements. Since she is getting the 7th vial, she offers to give us the 2 potions and 4 empty remaining vials without any other charge; she'll keep the 7th. We agree.

Nature (17) & Arcana (15) by Riglan & Temo respectively - they notice interesting things to talk about later. Temo sees magic about her; Riglan recognises the aura and manner about her - she has a fey wild kind of vibe.

Riglan enquires about other things - browse around maybe - and she offers to show us around.

* Workshop at the back
* Nearby - miscellaneous spell components
* Upstairs - a small section with writings that might be interesting

We head up. Looks a bit like a sitting room, but with a shelf with a few kinda tatty looking books, then a section with scrolls rolled up and stacked. She asks if spell books are any use; we shake our heads - our magic is innate. She looks to Nethza - "...or granted, in your case". Nethza recoils a bit - Aneeria tells her she's too afraid of her magic; "don't fear the darkness! People have been taught to fear darkness, but ask yourself, why? Why would they tell you that? What do they stand to gain? THAT is the question! Alright. Forget these spell books!"

She empties the scrolls out onto the table and starts sifting through them. She ends up selecting 3 she thinks might be interesting:

* Fog cloud (L1), which could be used by Riglan or Temo - Temo shows a lot of interest.
* Thunderwave (L1), again castable by Riglan or Temo - Riglan is interested in that one.
* Shatter (L2) - Temo or Nethza - could be one for Nethza, as Temo's more comfortable with L1.

The L1s are 50gp and the L2 is 100gp. Temo looks set to try and bargain, but Riglan rests a hand gently on his shoulder, as he thinks the price is fair and this place isn't fancy; it doesn't feel right trying to drive a hard bargain. But before we can say anything, Aneeria says, "If spells aren't your thing, though, I've one more thing you might be interested in". She takes us to a room out the back, with a few items laid out on a large table covered in straw.

* There's a horn (bugle) which looks like it's made out of shell. Apparently you can choose who hears it, up to around 600ft away and nobody else hears it. 1 person per charge.
* A lantern (already lit) that flickers with a yellow/orange flame. Aneeria thinks Nethza would like it; when the flame turns bright green, it means that there are undead within 300ft.
* A sling (like a slingshot, but the "fabric" bit only, not the Y-shaped frame). It warns the bearer if anything within 30ft of them will threaten them and wakes them up if in danger. A sling of warning!

All interesting! The horn is 55gp, lantern 130gp and sling 220gp. After some debate, we opt for the two L1 scrolls, the horn and the slingshot. 375gp. Temo turns on the charm despite Riglan's misgivings (persuasion 18+10!) but doesn't try to drive too hard a bargain. Aneeria offers 150gp sale for all those things (!) if we let her keep one of the potions of acid resistance. We agree; why not!

We thank her a lot and say we'll be back in a couple of days for the potion. She tells us that if we have any questions, come find her - but don't send any more customers her way!

We head out; it's about 7-something and we remember that Firelast's has Riglan's new armour. They close soon so we head over quickly and get there just in time to pick it up. We learn in passing about **a gala "on the boat" (Grand Dame)** happening tomorrow.

So, Riglan tries it on. He's taken into the fitting room and gets helped with how to use the various straps to tighten it, what bits go where and so-on. It'll take a while to "bed in" but it just needs a bit of time. Riglan is super happy with it. He hands back the "work in progress token" he'd been given. She compliments Temo on his new "look". She's shutting up shop now; sees us out, waves goodbye, flips the sign to 'closed' & we see the lights being put out.

We figure it's dinner time & manage, at last, to find space at One Foot In The Boat. Middle aged human host, wiry fellow with slicked back hair. We sit in a courtyard space at a square table with bench seats. There are some older trees, small lights are strung up (bottles with fireflies in!). A young half-elf guy comes up (in his 20s) to serve the table. In the end we get one trout, one sole (2gp) and 5sp of accompaniments; we get a bottle berry wine too (8sp). 33sp.

The fish is, per recommendation, actually really amazing.

As the evening wears on, we keep our ear to the ground about the orb or art or gala or any of that. Temo is the smooth talker (investigation - nat 20! + 6). Art shows happen at the castle, else Kesper Dryland holds events on the boat but they require an invitation - or a great deal of money. All-in, nobody really seems to know anything about any orbs. No art shows coming up! One person comes up and tells us that really we're in the wrong place; we should be at the seedier parts of town, like the Cointoss or or the Wink & Kiss.

We do hear one other interesting thing tho - one person said they know that some Waterdavian nobles are in town ("the rude ones"!) from some older family outside of Waterdeep, they've a griffon or something and are in a club called the Feathergail Society, going to Feathergail Spire and show flying and hunting and stuff. They're in town. Staying at the Pipe, passing through. Heading to Feathergail Spire.

Feathergails - "air cultists" - mentioned by the brown leather elemental types. Where's Feathergail Spire? It's late - 9:30-10pm. Eskilindar's is shut.

We opt for a late one and try the Cointoss. We've not been. Maybe we can overhear more stuff or find out where the Spire is. It's a surprisingly low key place; a dive bar, talking in hushed tones. More cramped and smelly. There are some bottles of firey-looking spirits and two big tapped casks with pint and gallon prices (!) - one a cold lager, the other an amber ale.

Riglan and Maireagh go ale. Nethza goes lager. Temo points at a green-blue bottle of some god-knows-what spirit and says "that!". Turns out there's a game for that; if you can throw a coin through a small slot in the wall, then that's all you gotta pay. Else you lose the coin and pay in full. Riglan gives Temo a copper piece. Temo aims & throws. D20+Dex, with advantage; a 5 and a 19, plus 5. DC 20. Win! The barman hands him the drink in a wide, shallow glass - lighting it on fire first. Temo intelligence 16 (wow) + 3, realises that it'll burn itself out and then you drink it.

Riglan tries to listen in (perception 4 + 8) but Temo's making a big deal of being new in town, having done the archery comp., he's got the attention because of his coin throw win; so he's kinda using chat to get information (performance - 12 + 7). Even specifically mentions the orb - dangerous thing to ask, but he's told that this place is "neutral ground" - it's The Hand's business; don't want to get mixed up with the Order of Kraken, messy times; Hand may think they're in charge of town, but times are changin', the Hand business is at Wink & Kiss if you want to know more - keep your wits about you and your eyes on the ground. Don't draw attention to yourself! Not Temo's strong point. That's the place to find out about the Orb.

We do learn that the orb is *already* in town; it was brought in about a week ago. The Hand and Order both want to buy it, but neither have it yet.

It's probably now about 11pm, and we head out of there and decide in view of the gala MAYBE being about the orb and being tomorrow, we'll head to Wink & Kiss now. However, Riglan casts Disguise Self to look more like a seafaring type he saw at the Festhall. Temo is dressed very brightly. Riglan suggests he change, but Temo says "fuck it", finds a patch of mud - and rolls in it! We're aghast but Temo is happy as anything and just says, "Cleaning stone!" - let's hope it works. So he looks rather more grubby and down-to-earth now. Maireagh also casts Disguise Self; she's a little taller, an older nondescript version of one of the servers we've seen at the various eateries we've been to over time. Regular leather armour rather than plate.

We arrive at the Wink & Kiss. Despite the hour, it's busier. It's a full tavern, not a dive bar. There's a kitchen but it's closed. A heavy-set human and half orc sit either side of the door - bouncers. They stop Temo and say he's too dirty to come in. We say "fine", go around a corner, clean him up a bit with the stone, and try again. We're let in, but on the way the human grabs Nethza's wrist and says "ANY sign of trouble and it's the tip of my spear that you're gonna be staring at. Do we understand each other?" - "Yes of course!". Tiefling racism strikes again (though the half-orc doesn't care). At least it keeps attention off the rest of us - and indeed it does.

Inside there are half a dozen belly dancers (!) all female, some servers around, we can see an open door to the kitchen where it looks like cleaning down is happening; seems like there are some private rooms dotted around. Riglan rolls insight - 2+5 LOL. Riglan, Temo, Maireagh and Nethza in that order - we find a table anywhere in the midst of the room, not off to a side or anything. Servers come over. Temo - Dwarven Ale; Nethza - Larger again; Riglan - tries the local wine; Maireagh - Dwarven Ale too since they didn't mention brandy.

Temo plucks up courage to ask around about the orb, but Riglan stops him - "keep your eyes to the ground" - we don't wanna cross The Hand right now. So for a while we just listen -> perception (Riglan, 12+8). We realise that the staff are managing more than just drinks and food; they're busy and moving between tables or in/out of private rooms without carrying drinks or food in and out. One particular room is constantly entered. Riglan tells his group to watch out for him, feigns being sleepy and tries to send a spider into that "popular" room via the ceiling.

Inside there's a dark haired human woman with icy blue eyes, dressed in clothes that look typical of being "on the road". Traveller's garb. Cloak with hood down, weapon sheathed, leather straps with various things carried on them, light leather armour. Seated at a table. Behind, two scale-mail wearing presumed guards. One female, one hard to tell but not human. A server comes in and says "new arrivals - two - man and woman - not seen them before, what do you want to us to do Narine?" (sp?) - "Keep an eye on them. See if they're snooping or if they're buyers." "Very well". Server leaves & the woman just sits waiting. Riglan "disconnects" to see if he can spot these two - we see two have just walked in, and sit quite a distance away. Riglan warns his group that we are probably being watched, as these two new arrivals are. Riglan "reconnects". One of the guards is asking Narine if "this is a good idea - don't you think people will know that you're here, trying to find a buyer? Is that safe for you?" "I appreciate the concern because I assume you're concerned and you're not questioning my decision to find buyers on the open market... Who did you say you worked for before?" Much backtracking... "I've worked with the Hand as a guard for the last 5 years, I could not be more loyal!" "Oh I know, but not all of us have the same goals. I'm not naive; I know there are people moving against me."

The door opens and the server shows the two new arrivals in. They remain anonymous to each other. The two seem to already know what it's all about. The new man, unarmoured, almost noble clothes - orangey-red clothing for both of them - says, "we hear you're selling and orb." Narine confirms. The new woman asks for proof. Narine says she's got it in a secure location and could take them there or show them how to get there, if an agreement is met. Man asks for price. Narine asks for offer. Woman says "no games" & requests price again. Narine refuses but does say a minimum is 1500gp as there are other bidders. Woman thinks this is "preposterous". Gets angry and offended. "You steal this *from us* and you want us to pay 1500 gold to get back what is ours?!" - swords are drawn by the guards - Narine doesn't flinch and tells them to calm down & be professional or leave. She's only there as an agent, only interested in price and nothing more. Man starts to leave, bringing woman - woman is angry - "You will learn the price of crossing the Fire Cult!" & they leave the tavern. Narine, once they've gone, drops her guard and is visibly shaken. "I think we're done for today" & they start to pack up, then head out a back door.

Riglan dismisses the spider & is about to quietly relay the info but Maireagh suggests we don't talk here. So we finish up the drinks & head back to the hotel. If nothing else, we figure that the orb and the gala are not connected, at least not directly. The orb is being covertly, not openly sold.

Temo and Riglan remember Aneeria and discuss it on the way back. There's a very sylvan, fey wild strong signature. An ageless quality. She's a creature of magic, too and probably not human. Between the two of us we theorise that she might be a fey wild Hag.

In the room, we exchange all this information.

* The delegation and dwarves *are* related to Feathergails / air cult and these earth elementals. 
* Can't be directly related to the delegation coming down as the orb arrived too many days ago. The Orb is Kraken & Hand, along with Fire Cult claiming original ownership. Someone with the Hand - Narine - is claiming to have possession of the orb & trying to sell it, but other people say that the Hand don't own the orb yet. They might be wrong, or Narine is actually running her own agenda outside that of the Hand. Unlikely in the circumstances, so probably official Hand business.
* We know the Feathergails *and* the delegation for the dwarves would both be at the Pipe but not necessarily at the same time, but if they are there, they'd both be there round about now.

We'll ask about Feathergail Spire in the morning.

## DAY 51

At around 8am we go to see when Eskilindar's opens; and it already is. We ask about Feathergail Spire. He hasn't heard of it and it's not any maps that he has.

Randomly we go exploring down Beliard St to Fisher Street, because it looks green and tree-lined on the map. In practice we find large, grand houses with guards patrolling the grounds.

After that we focus a bit more and start making proper investigations. Where (or what) is Feathergail Spire? Procedural: Temo: Investigation (only 4+6), plus help from others (16+6) -> 22. We have to spend money to get info out of people (10gp). Information about the word "Feathergail" itself seems to be very specific; around 4 of 5 people had no idea what we even meant, but at the Waterwell & Fine Wines places we did "get a bite" (they call themselves the Feathergail Knights, though are probably not "real"/proper knights). The Feathergail Society comes in to the venue sometimes. They come through town usually only very briefly. More to offer than Red Larch and the Pipe is a better inn than the best in Triboar. They're rich, young, no jobs, inherited wealth and have supernatural mounts like Hippogrifs and Griffons. They head towards the Sighing Valley.

This isn't getting us anywhere and when we finally stop for the day, Maireagh suggests we just kinda change tack entirely and maybe try to find the Emerald Enclave. We kick it around a bit more and Riglan still feels like it is an itch he wants to scratch. We might spend tomorrow looking for info about Unrail, perhaps? But we do check on the maps to see what travel options there are for the Emerald Enclave areas.

One idea suddenly - it's 5ish so we go to see Torval at Adbar Trading Coster and see if he knows how the delegations got on. Again, we pass the Morningspire. The evening sunlight lights up an entire side of it; we realise that there are stained glass panels on the inside, causing beautiful multicolour reflections and effects inside. On the left is the galleon; amazing sails, again many colours, embroidered with silk patterns, beautiful lanterns... A wide ramp with carpet leads up to the deck. A woman can be see at the base of the gangway (on land) who looks similar to Laycie, but older, dressed very prim and proper; she's addressing some workers on deck, alongside someone in a kind of naval uniform. The lady pulls out a checklist and a small bag; hands coins to the workers, ticking off things on the list; bows to the naval uniform guy and walks up the walkway onto the ship. The naval uniform guy heads away into town. They're getting the boat set up for the night.

We cross the bridge, more things open and a bit busier, some cafes we didn't notice before; they're packing down, though. We get to the Coster and find Torval. A few other dwarves there this time, as they're still open. He tells us that the delegation had been resupplied and left, headed down South. He knows they're going to Stone Bridge, Goldenfields then Waterdeep. There's discussion of Riverguard Keep ("a new dock attacked to a 1000 year old structure" - hmm! Dwarven too!) just at the river on the exit of the Sumber Hills. He mentions that the river Dessarin is navigable by trail along its West bank if you wanted to not go by road.

He does mention that the delegation he thinks have some kind of special / sacred seeds, for Goldenfields; or old manuscripts, books, treaties and so-on (historical literary treasures).

We head back to our inn. On the way, Nethza asks Riglan if he can do the spider/lizard thing again and go back to the house we spied on before. Just at random see what we can find out. The delegation has gone now, and they were waiting for that, so what's next? We could go check. Temo knows exactly where it is, so he can get us nearby and Riglan can send in a spider. We agree to do it. It's looking a bit like a plan of action; follow the river, because it's in the country, it's headed toward Goldenfields anyway and we might be going in the direction of our ongoing mystery anyway.

Temo strides by the house looking like he owns the place - we're asking if we're going to the gala tonight - Temo says (deception 17+4) "why yes, it's a nice night for it!" - he's told to hurry as it starts soon - and as this is happening the spider runs down his clothes and scuttles across into the house. It's dim inside; still some light in from the windows. No lamps on. The spider looks around a few rooms. Riglan via the spider notices (insight 10+5) that the house looks empty; it's been vacated. The kitchen is emptied; no food around, everything is clean & put away. The spider looks upstairs to double check. All beds are stripped. Temo rejoins the group and we go to a back door for Temo to try and pick the lock. It takes him a while (only 4 + 8); tries again; another bad roll (7+8). We have to give up. Riglan calls back the spider.

Nethza then offers to misty step, just as a pissed-off Temo is announcing that he's going to try and go to the gala! She digs around, finds a key and open the door. Dog waits outside on watch. We look around; Temo has the best investigation (13+6), but does find in the wash room that someone overlooked and left behind a brown cloak with robes with an insignia that looks like a triangle in a circle with a short vertical line that goes from the middle of the bottom of the triangle up to roughly the centre. There's also tin mask that looks a bit like a stone gargoyles face. **Perhaps this was the messenger's outfit?**

We discern that quite a few people were sleeping around; scratchings on the wall here and there from presumed-bored people, e.g. "Urnrayle is a tyrant", "Helenray hates men" and "Vizann is a bitch" but nothing too valuable (!). At least we get "Unrail"'s name spelt right now. Well, maybe.

So we head out. Remembering that he can misty step too, Riglan locks up and leaves the key inside. Temo is unimpressed.

We head back to the inn. We remember that Wallheim's is in theory open til 6am and wonder if we can pick up our potion first things.

## DAY 52

We get up early just in case Wallheim's is open - Riglan oversleeps (Con save nat 1 + 4) but Nethza wakes him. So Riglan and Nethza run up just before 6am yawning, and we do manage to get the potion. We thank Aneeria and she asks where we're going; we explain and she asks if, before we go, she could try and tell the future! She fills a bowl with water, then gets various sticks and leaves and tells us to put our hands on them. We do that for a moment, then she scrunches it all up, sprinkles it over the water & swirls it around while speaking some kind of incantation.

She tells us we have to be careful; "I see in front of you - discovery; learning; family and friendship; but also - be on your toes. Keep your eyes peeled. Not everyone you meet is going to be who they appear to be." We hear the bell ring for 6am on the distant clock. "Oh! 6 o'clock! Time to go" - she ushers us out, we thank her and head back to the inn. The others are still asleep.

Eventually everyone wakes up. We decide to have a traveller's breakfast in the inn's tavern because we've never eaten here before so it's nice to do (4sp each) - sausages, smoked fish, omelette, mushrooms, potato cakes and a rich, aromatic black tea, then head out of the North gate to pick up the horses and wagon and bring that back through to Lionshield Costa - since we don't need the wagon and they said we could sell it back (25gp). Maireagh cast mending & we used the cleaning stone, so it's in great condition. We pick up rations from the market and are just about to cross the bridge when we stop for a quick tourist moment at the Morningspire.

The ground floor has a tiled entranceway with stairs curving up either side. Curved bench seats encircle a small pool with a fountain bubbling away in the centre. It has a contemplative feel. The next level up is interior also, with beautiful windows. A choir is singing - morning chants - then work in procession up floor by floor, singing on each. Various people who worship with them join and leave as they move through the tower. They're singing to greet the morning (their deity - the morning sun).

**Finally we head back down, across the bridge and out of the South gate exit on Chauntea's Road, then start following the river**.

Riglan's leading on foot, others are on horseback. Maireagh and Temo are on their mules. The dog walks alongside. Nethza is on the draft horse. The bustle of the city fades away behind us - the tall walls and flags, the field full of people looking for work in the fair, the towers and spires, the busy river with its barges and ships, the Grand Dame. It's not home, but it feels comfortable now. It was interesting for Riglan; after the initial shock, not too hard to get used to the busy streets and due to the diversity there, he perhaps felt less conspicuous than in other towns. But the lack of forest, few trees, lots of buildings, the less clean water - that was all a bit disturbing.

We find the track; there is a distinct track, one horse wide, into the hills. It's not used much clearly but was probably never very "wagon-friendly" as we can see ahead how up/down things get.

To start with it is easy going (survival: Nat 20 + 8). Riglan's lead goes well; he hadn't realised how he'd sort of shut down a bit as far as the smells and noises went. Now he's back in fresh air, wildlife more evident, the quiet sounds of the river, birds, foliage and so-on. He gets attuned back into it quite quickly and the trail is not hard to follow. He feels a sort of relief; more at peace.

The path gradually gets more twisty. By around midday we've got around a couple of big river curves and there's a shale bank that's easy to stop and camp at (bottom of 2nd hexagon below Yartar, around the 'gnoll' the map shows). We manage to get a few river crabs and a lot of watercress there; the water is noticeably cleaner here, despite being downstream, so we don't have too many concerns there. Reed beds in particular yield cleaner food areas and water. As we eat, a barge sails by - has cargo on it - we wave. We wonder if that this track used to help - maybe still does help? - pull barges back up river.

We press on. Weather is good and stays good all day. Riglan: Survival 13+8. It's a bit humid though; as the day draws on we see a few rain clouds starting to form in the distance. By about 4pm it starts to rain a little; Riglan uses Druidcraft to figure out what the next 24h should be. The rain looks set to get heavier. With that in mind, we decide to set camp while still fairly dry since we're probably going to be packing up in the wet in the morning and head up hill a little to be a safe distance above the river. We end up in position above the river and a significant tributary that we realise we'll have to cross the next day. The spot offers some shelter in trees/bushes and some rock outcrops that help the tents stay off wet ground. There's grass for the horses - we leave them untethered. It's warm and we don't bother with a fire.

We spend the evening chatting and have an early night.

Watch is: dog assists for advantage; Maireagh (dodgy but scrapes by), Nethza (good), Temo (4 or 7+2!) but his sling doesn't wake him at least, Riglan wakes up Temo (!) then has a good watch.

## DAY 53

Riglan wakes people in the morning so we can pack up - in the rain, unfortunately, but at the outcrop gives us some cover - and head off with just some light food. It's not long before we reach the tributary. We try to find a place to cross (Riglan: survival 9+8). There's a bit of a trail up the tributary which we follow. It's a long way, unfortunately; almost 4 miles; but we do find remnants of stone bridge, with enough of a ford to get everyone across easily. On this side, the trail cuts around a hill rather than just following the tributary and we rejoin the main river a fair distance further along South.

The scrub and vegetation differs here; some larches, willows and the odd birch. We end up with a late lunch back on the riverbank. The river is wide here. The odd barge and boat go past downriver, and one with sails goes upriver too. Strange two mast triangular sails; Riglan's not seen those before. Looks sleek, as if designed for speed; most of the others have been flat bottomed and square-sailed.

Afternoon travel (Riglan: Survival 13+8) goes reasonably. We start to just get outside the hills and are hit by a strange hot wind blowing up the river. It reminds us of the strange burning winds that used come from the East, which we hadn't encountered since the big storm that cleared the weather above the Spine. Hopefully it's not the same wind! It's not as dry - it's warm but damper. The air feels humid, almost charged.

We're in plains of a sort here, scrub and grass, with perhaps distant patches that might be farms. Rolling hills, not fully flat. Druidcraft again! What's the forthcoming weather? It'll get cooler via the wind picking up but cooling; drying out, no rain for a while. We pick a camp site that is elevated a bit for vantage but not too far from the river. The horses again can run freely overnight. It was a big day - more than 26 miles covered! Around 50 miles covered from Yartar. Good going.

Same watch order: Maireagh has another bad night (which means she sleeps well!), Nethza not great too - perhaps we marched too hard today! - Temo (9 then 16+2) is OK, Riglan not great either (4 then 4, sigh, + 8). While on watch, he notices a procession of smaller boats sailing downriver with lamps on them and only a few people. It's still dark so this seems unusual. About 4 of them. Suddenly someone on the boat notices him & all the lamps are put out. Riglan loses sight of them.

## DAY 54

Riglan once again wakes the party. Based on our map, we decide to cut cross country dead South towards the Stone Trail - no more following the river. It's a decent distance - 16-18 miles or so, if the map is accurate.

Riglan Survival: 5+8, sudden change of pace to cross-country not going so well for him. We do eventually find the Stone Trail but not sure where we are E-W along it; it's quite late, around 2pm. We choose to press on towards the stone bridge, on the stone trail and there is the odd other traveller or two. After about an hour, some hills start to rise on the right; wooded, craggy, sharper angles; not rolling like the previous hills we were in. Escarpments / cliffs visible. By about 4pm we can see the bridge and get beyond Larch Path.

It's not what we expected, in that it's just much bigger and more dramatic than even the pictures suggested. It's a sort of arched, floating ribbon of road without handrails. We elect to force it and just push hard to Beliard.

Riglan speaks to the mules and draft horse to ask for a gallop; then wildshapes into a horse himself. Animal handling with advantage. Everyone gets good rolls with the advantage. It's actually quite fun. We cut around a group of other travellers on foot and pass a small group of traders with a cart pulled by a mule (which looks surprised!). One shouts a warning that we don't want to lose our footing on the bridge! It has no rails - we'll slow down on approach and to cross - it's kinda lethal. It soars up 400 feet over the river, needlessly high in an arch, just for show. That's why we could see it from so far away. Very impressive but completely bonkers. Dwarven runes and writing adorn the structure. The single span is an incredible two miles long; surely some magic must be present. Originally built to connect two halves of the realm of Besilmir, designed to span even the widest river flood.

Despite the length and time taken we've no choice but to slow down. Riglan tells Maireagh it's impressive, but he's speaking Horse so she just hears horse noises.

Going up isn't so bad, but as we crest and arc down it has a vertiginous feeling that's quite unsettling. We get over without encountering other travellers fortunately, then try and pick up pace again. (Con saves required). Riglan and Temo's mule are going well, but Nethza and Maireagh's animals get exhausted. We slow down & Riglan comes back to his normal form. We push on with one more con save from ourselves, not our animals. Again we get some extra exhaustion here and there but roll in without any one creature or person having more than 1 point of exhaustion, at least.

**We get to Beliard**. It's a village surrounding the intersection of the Dessarin Road and Stone Trail. This isn't a farming village - there are lots of big, mature trees around. There's a public well and a pond in the village centre, with oxen and horses hanging out nearby. Lots of cattle and horses in general actually; it's set up for travellers. There's a tanner, a smith, two horse dealers & trainers and three stables, one odd looking inn that seems to be an original stone building with another wooden addition next to it that itself has a single storey extension - The Watchful Knight. We put the horses up at the stables closest to that inn - 1gp - and head in the inn.

A dining room with hearth tho no fire (it's warm), kitchen seems to be open still (tho it's gone 7pm now, quite late, dusk); we're asked if we want food or rooms - both - and they go to check on availability. We note that it looks like there used to be a suit of armour displayed; there's space for it; but no armour actually present. A human and halfling woman are running the inn. They have a room in the 3rd extension (you have to go out and in again). As we go around, again lots of planting and trees; a beautiful willow stands out in particular. The room has four single beds with a simple wash room.

We go and grab food. We pretty tired so no sightseeing - straight down to business. Beef cooked over hot stones, we go for local cider, veggies come with. 25sp all-in. We get bonus beef/corn broth soup with thick bread. We note that the kitchen seems kinda frantic and stressy; they eventually take 3 massive trays of food out and up stairs - there's one big group in this building apparently. We guess that they're important though she can't say - privacy - perhaps the Waterdeep delegation? Eventually our food also turns up & well worth the wait, really great food. We also try a local pear cider too. A bit sweeter, good stuff.

As we're finishing up, coming down from the stairs, a female moon elf. Beautifully dressed in a flowing robe, accents of green, with a cloak that seems to be made of shifting patterns of shadow and leaves. Skin almost silvery-white with black hair. She knocks on the kitchen door and thanks the chef. "Thank you so much - I know it must be disruptive to have all of us arrive like this, early, I'm so sorry, I know you weren't expecting us until tomorrow, thanks for accommodating us" - and so-on. The dwarves apparently enjoyed the stew, high praise! Local wine lovely too. She heads out.

Temo chases her and introduces himself politely once out of the dining room. She's **Teresiel**, she says. Temo explains briefly about the concerns for the Mirabar delegation; she confesses that she is but wants to keep it quiet. Says we should come see her at 11pm, stealthily. 2nd door on the right. Gives him a special knock! He agrees. They're eager to hear more, in private.

Temo thanks her and comes back down. Sits down and says to us and says "couldn't find the bathrooms" in a normal volume. We finish up, go the room & Temo explains. Maireagh tries to estimate the time, but doesn't do so well. Riglan pops out and asks the innkeeper - it's 10pm now. So we do our best to estimate another hour. At around 11, we try to sneak to the room. Riglan turns into a cat to help. Temo and Riglan go to see if the coast is clear, but the innkeeper spots the fluffy cat and starts giving it scritches! Temo keeps in the shadows (stealth 19). Temo lets Riglan back in after the innkeeper put him outside, and we sneak onto the stairs, crouches and hides as the innkeeper comes past into the kitchen - this is a chance. Temo uses his new horn, so Nethza hears it and she and Maireagh know to come in. We scamper up the stairs. The dog stays at our room guarding. Maireagh trips on the top stair with a loud clatter; the door downstairs opens. "Is that the damned cat again?!" so Riglan uses that as a cue and runs down to distract the innkeeper. She goes to the kitchen to find the cat some milk. We get to the door, Temo uses the special knock, Riglan turns back into himself, and when the door opens, Temo says - "back in just a second!", nips back to the top of the stairs just in time to cast a silent image of the cat apparently leaving so the inn keeper sees it when returning with milk. "Oh. I'll never understand cats." - she lifts the saucer and slurps the milk herself!

Temo goes back to the elf's room to join the party.

There are 6 people in there, sitting around waiting:

* The elf Temo met - Teresiel.
* A tough looking female human, in a red coat, scale mail and with a black axe.
* Four dwarves - one male in artisan robes, another with braided black hair and darker skin, a woman in scholarly robes with heavy chains and another woman with ruddy skin in very fine clothes, a bit taller and slimmer than the others. Looks noble.

Seeing the noble, Riglan introduces himself and immediately apologises for our appearance and, doubtless, smell! The noble is Lady Deseyna Norvael. She's headed home to Waterdeep. She reintroduces Teresiel (from Silverymoon) who is going to the abbey at Goldenfields. The other female dwarf is Bruldenthar, chief historian of Delzoun. Her assistant is one of the male dwarves in the artisan robes, who she doesn't otherwise introduce! They're on an academic mission. The last dwarf is Rhundorth, with the darker skin. The human is the Captain of the Guard.

We do our best to explain our concerns and the groups that've been around. It's largely met with confusion; they're not carrying anything of that much interest; the books are tomes about Northern realms, not Besilmir for example, and they've kept their eyes peeled. Nobody can quite figure it out. They ask amongst themselves about anything else they might be carrying that could be relevant; they just can't think of anything that's not either only known to themselves, or public knowledge.

The Captain of the Guard recommends that in light of a *possible* threat, they might leave right now. They're already a day ahead and perhaps leaving early will avoid any issues.

**We are thanked and told to look for Teresiel if we're ever in Waterdeep. We're given an address**.

They decide they'll pack and head on to Summit Hall. We head back to our room. We hear them heading off shortly after - they have a substantial guard; about a dozen guards plus the Captain.

## DAY 55

We awaken in Beliard. It's about 8am. We head to breakfast at the inn, and ask about journey time to Summit Hall. The proprietors are very welcoming but seem a little distressed; Riglan enquires and they're reluctant, but Temo tries to persuade, successfully; they say that they were upset about the group that left because they'd tried so hard. Temo takes her off to one side and tries to explain, but they seem distressed too afterwards, albeit perhaps in a different way and Temo can't really figure out why.

We have another big traveller's breakfast. It's very good! 1gp for everyone combined. We thank them for their hospitality, and chat briefly about the town; they recommend kind of everywhere, it's only small place.

* Dairy: We pick some 2 year aged hard cheese, one round. Wax protection. Looks amazing. 2gp.

* Tanners: Some high quality saddle bags and very good saddles, gloves, boots, softer armour and accessories; all that kind of stuff. Riglan notices a particular pair of boots made of a different leather; they remind him of Teresiel's shifting colour travelling cloak. He asks about them. Sold to them by elves travelling through some time ago; a prized item; Detect Magic shows an abjuration enchantment, so it's probably stealth thing (Boots Of Elvenkind, silent movement kind, don't require attunement). Maireagh could find these useful; Riglan asks about the price - are they even for sale? 300gp. Temo persuades him **in exchange for sending people his way** to help replicate them or let them know that he has replica designs, non-magic; **Beliard Leathers**. The shoes come in a leather pouch that's a useful example of their work. Riglan notices that the leather armour here is excellent quality - at least on a par with his old leather from the tribe; he could always come get this one day, if his own dragon armour wasn't enough for the tribe upon return.

* Meat market: We don't need anything, but pick up some snacks (1gp) - jerky basically.

* Cafe (friends of innkeepers) - basically a coffee shop; Mastica brew, brand new: Lots of seats and benches outside. A few ranchers are outside having a break, and mention the busy road; the convo wanders a bit but one mentions that perhaps the river is being avoided because of river bandits that have been striking further south. "**Jolliver Grimjaw's** supposedly trying to get it under control; he means well, trying to get bands of mercenaries together, think they're hoping to rebuild the keep by the river, **Riverguard Keep**; he's been recruiting. A few patrols on the water - trying to keep the peace. Only started about 6 months ago". Hasn't been seen in more recent months tho. The whole area got more busy since then. They aren't sure why. One mentions "not everyone spends money here - the poncey ones, they just fly over us!" - go that spire - if we're headed to Summit Hall, we'll see it; in the **Sighing Valley**. He mentions also **Halls Of The Hunting Axe**, same side of river as Summit Hall, in the hills but off the road somewhat. Most of the other interesting stuff is across the river though, again all down that way (South). We're told to avoid the Axe as it is dangerous; he marks it on the map for us (so we can avoid it, uuuh, yup, we'll totally do that...). Almost half way between here & Summit Hall N-S, but about 8 miles to the east, in a pass between the hills we can make out on the map (albeit unmarked), on the E edge of the hills there. We thank them for the advice & grab ourselves Mastica Brews (1sp each). Fruity, smokey, perhaps burned?! Strange flavour, but not a bad one. Temo gets a bit hyper after a while - caffeine, not that he knows it.

Just before we leave Riglan asks one of the ranchers - he doesn't really look like a cow...? They reckon a friendlier bugbear, or a small sneezing giant (due to the red nose). The ears are a bit cowlike though.

So about 10:30, we head out of town on the road South, keeping our eyes peeled for the Spire. Riglan: Advantage survival role, after the info from the ranchers; 3, then 18 + 8. Caffeine fuelled! We're going quickly, until about 2pm when it probably is wearing off. We find a hilltop and stop for a while. Looking around (perception 7+8) and perhaps see a spire across the river, but still a long way south. There seem to be some large birds flying away - perhaps that's what the Feathergail people are riding?

It isn't far to get to the track that'd leave to **Axe**, but we'd be getting there near dark which seems risky. We carry on beyond the E-W track along the road, then actually cut around the small hill we were on, coming off the road going *West* towards the river for a view of the spire. Across the river we can make out old fortifications of some sort, stepping back up the bank and spanning some of the hills. No view of the spire there (too low), so we get back on the road and up to the next hill Southwards, for another vantage point for the spire; a clearer view, a better sense of direction and distance, and yes, what we saw before was definitely the spire. Then we cut across country east, down the steeper slope, along and back up (the map: peanut shaped hill above the 'S' of Summit Hall), moving along the top of it looking for a vantage point for Halls Of The Hunting Axe and camping spot. It's actually a taller hill and we can see Summit Hall to the South easily enough - and indeed, North, we see Axe. West, we can again see the spire; a bit clearer with the evening sun lighting one side more starkly. A blueish white looking structure - seems very tall, though we can't see more than its top section from where we are. There still seem to be large birds or similar flying around.

Survival 17+8: Wow. Good roll. We actually find a little cave up here; the more exposed cliffs etc seem to have a few. The cavern is about 15ft high and only goes back around 20ft, nothing living in it, but good shelter. There's a pool of water in the back that's dripped out from the rocks in a smoothed-out bowl. We set up camp. No fires though - by about 6pm the sun is shining directly into the cavern; it isn't cold. But we realise that there are drawings and carvings around in the walls. We are not the first here.

Riglan calls a hawk (Find Familiar) and asks it to fly up for a viewpoint, then sends it out of range to scout around Axe and come back to report if it saw anything interesting - unusual movements, monsters, undead, whatever! Give us an idea of the lie of the land, as best as it is able to given the vocabulary limitations.

When it flies up, while still within telepathic range, Riglan gets more of an idea of the lay of the land. A slightly better view of the spire but it's still only 100ft. Maybe 40 miles away. It can just about make it to Axe & back with enough time to communicate interesting things, within the 2 hours Riglan can sustain it on this plane. It heads off; we continue with camp, food etc., then returns. It indicates prominent outcrop rises above the plains and a series of crumbling ruins around. Long stone walls in parts, a stream and waterfall from the outcrop. Ruins not buildings but some parts look more intact. Woods and thickets, quite beautiful; statues, crumbling, outbuildings, some bigger building (I presume a keep). There's a notion of a pattern to it, the streets themselves perhaps runic somehow? They're orderly. That's the best the hawk can convey. It didn't see any creatures. Riglan thanks it before it departs (around 8pm ish) and tells the group. Sounds interesting!

Maireagh suggests that we check the big book and see if we can find references to something similar (Axe is likely to be a modern day name only). The book mentions many cities in their kingdom (hill dwarves - this region, then) and does mention one on the eastern flank, built on the base of a beautiful wooded hill; an ambassadorial city mostly; the wooded hill was used as accommodation for visiting elves. They'd meet the elves in the High Forest, just across the plains. It doesn't mention a cliff or waterfall, though does mention a stream. Perhaps some calamity, e.g. along the lines of what happened to the Evermoor. It says there was a keep with moat; we know of a keep without (dried up). Sounds like it *could* be the right place, but it used to house about 600 dwarves. Not huge but not tiny either. Used to be called **Vol-Tor-Hildbesil**. Translates to "Palace Of Torhild of Besil" - Torhild was the king of the time and claims that his mausoleum is here, buried beneath. Would explain all the statues.

So anyway, it's 9pm or later. We agree to head that way in the morning and poke around the edges, but we've no clue what we'll find other than just curiosity. Maybe we just file it away for future reference.

In view of potential danger from whatever the big birds were and maybe monsters, we keep the horses close by at the cave and give them feed.

We investigate all the cave carvings. Everything in here is quite weathered. There would've been steps up to the pool once. We think maybe it was once a shrine. Runic carvings and paintings in very faded dyes are visible, but the stone was corroded by it leaving impressions. Some areas of the interior stone are much smoother as if shaped artificially, in addition to the natural shaping.

Watch is dog plus: Maireagh, Nethza, Temo, Riglan. Temo falls asleep, but wakes up with a persistent ringing in his ears. He suddenly realises that it's his sling! He shouts a warning to everyone to try and rouse them but we're slow to wake up. Riglan in particular (wisdom save nat 1 + 9). Battle!

(Initiative: Temo 21, Riglan 7, by chance; fits right in with the wisdom rolls. Spooky similar story for Netzha, 17 and Maireagh, 7). Temo is first to act, but can't see too well with the night googles. The sling gives a continuous sense of unease, so he loads his hand crossbow and with his free hand prepares Firebolt, but can't see any target (perception 12). It's weird. He shouts, "I can't see anything! Where is it?"

Nethza (NB we *always* sleep in armour when on the road) runs up alongside and tries to see what it is, but also can't (perception 10). She casts Armour Of Agathys as a precaution and draws her flail.

We feel a strange rumbling, as if a quake/tremor. A short distance away, bursting out of the ground, some huge mandibles appear and an armoured pointed head and huge claws appear. It's kind of the shape of a preying mantis, but armoured and coloured like a lobster or spiney crab. Mariegh yells out, "It's an Ankheg!" and Temo says "So, what hurts it?!" She says "Dunno! But don't let it spray you with its spit! she replies.

The creature has now fully emerged and sprays a line of spit, like a hosepipe, aiming for Temo, but more or less at the same time Temo's readied firebolt hits and though it doesn't do too much damage, the fire did take effect. He avoids some of the spit but gets hit; it's acid, not venom.

More rumbling - a second Ankheg appears and shoots acid trying to hit the dog and Maireagh. Both dodge the worst of it and only get a small amount of acid on, though it stings. Maireagh shouts, "It's not over - I can feel more tremors!" and runs in to engage with her sword. She hits; the dog attacks and does too.

Riglan struggles out of bed and notices there are tremors too. He grabs his staff.

Temo attacks the more injured of the two, taking it down. He hides behind its body (!) so the other won't throw acid at it. Nethza tries to hex the remaining (for now!) creature then attacks with the flail. She injures it, but not enough to take it down. It rears back and shoots acid at Nethza - Riglan would be in danger too but its spray falls just short of his camp bed. She's badly hit (16 from a 3d8 roll) but does manage to dodge a subsequent bite and holds her hex - just as a third Ankheg bursts out of the ground and goes for Nethza and Maireagh with acid. Both fail savings throws - nat 1, twice! Wut. Shit. Fortunately, damage roll is low (so again, hex holds); then the new creature tries to bite Nethza, but once again, misses.

A *fourth* creature bursts forth and shoots acid at Riglan. He doesn't manage to dodge. The acid hits him fully, but he's surprised to see it glance of the black dragon armour and only splashes of hit hurt him. Maireagh runs in between the two new arrivals - very gutsy move - and goes for the one that hit Riglan, hitting twice. The dog continues to attack the second of the two original arrivals, but it misses.

Riglan's finally awake enough to act! He thinks there need to be more targets, to distract from the acid attacks; Conjure Animals, 4 creatures; apes appear! Then he brings up the spirit totem for +10 HP for all.

Temo runs out, scores an OK hit on the 3rd creature and tries to hide again. He's out of sight but suspects that the creatures know where he is. Nethza tries to take down the second, injured, hexed Ankheg. She succeeds on her first hit, and moves the next to the third creature. She hits. Between her and Temo, it's looking injured.

Now the apes attack! Oook. The first ape runs up and attacks the 3rd creature; misses, gets enraged, crits and kills it. The other three gang up. 4 hits and a crit! They take it down! Mad.

The apes get super excited. They jump up and down screeching and being super happy and ripping off bits of Ankheg. The dog chases around after them. Eventually, Riglan is laughing so hard that his concentration wears off and they abruptly vanish. It's suddenly silent. Four pieces of poo fall from suspended places in mid air to the ground.

Riglan says, "I *knew* this place would be great" and digs around in Maireagh's bag for the monster harvesting manual. "This is gonna fun!" he says and pulls it out. We light lamps and get to work. The book does have info on them and we follow instructions.

* The fourth one had a particularly violent ape-based death and is harder to harvest.
* Harvest appraisal: Nature check roll. One minute each but advantage, with the book. Maireagh takes it off the chuckling and Riglan and says "I think this is *my* area!".  DC 10, but 15 for the damaged one. First roll is 19, so that's enough.
* The chitin is very hard but too inflexible for armour. Could be turned into a shield. Riglan's big, heavy shield might be a candidate there. The value is limited by how hard it is to work with tho. DC5!
* They have weird bladders in them (Riglan starts giggling again) which are useful for vials of acid. We do have 4 empty vials and two bottles of wine we could drink to make space. DC15.
* Within their jaw there's an acid reserve strong enough to melt stone or even glass. It can't be held in glass vials; the pouches must be extracted intact. DC20.

Temo's dexterity makes him a good choice for harvesting, but he has no proficiency in nature so Riglan assists there. This gives him advantage to harvest rolls. He starts with the hardest option - rolls 16+5, before advantage, on the first creature; so 21 and gets the acid pouch. He also gets 1 vial of the normal acid. Next roll, 17 max. The pouch on the 2nd creature bursts and melts into the ground. Creepy. He does get 2 more vials of normal acid. On the third one, again just misses the acid bladder but gets a fourth vial of normal acid. Four one he gets 15+5, but that one was too fucked up for pouches (DC25). Acid vials though - only 1 more this time.

We debate the chitin for a while and realise that a panel of shield size actually weights more than Riglan's current shield, without being more protective. Maireagh via the monster book estimates that 30lb is only worth about 1gp, so at risk of seeming overly cavalier about money, we elect to not harvest, but we do take some small chitinous souvenirs.

We drag the carcasses into the back of the cave, being careful so that as they rot down they won't pollute the water, but we quickly realise that the acid in the blood seems to now be already dissolving the inside of the creatures leaving just the chitin behind. Future travellers might find the carapaces useful, or at least, be warned about local dangers.

We discuss the attack. Ankhegs live solitary lives usually in mountains and hillsides, sometimes eating flesh/animals but most of the time they digest stuff in rocks and earth. A group attacking like this is extremely unusual. Maireagh says that apparently their bite is particularly nasty, restraining and crushing the victim - we were very lucky that they missed.

Everyone heads back to bed; Riglan goes on watch. He sketches pictures of the creatures in his journal and writes about confusing encounter.

450xp each.

## DAY 56

The sun is rising, illuminating the landscape beyond. We're in the shadow. We realise that the tunnels from which the Ankhegs emerged - the burrow down into the hillside. They came from the *West* so not from Axe. They also all came from the same direction, which is even weirder.

The tunnels are about 6ft in diameter, but the horses wouldn't be able fit. Riglan speaks to the horses and says he'll untie them and they can wander free, but ideally keep close by the cave. We'll be back. We leave plenty of feed - 3 days! - and he gives each one an apple.

So, we venture forth. I ask if Maireagh's OK going first as she has good perception and is good in the tunnels. Then Temo, Riglan as a smaller animal and Nethza so that the shortest are first and the taller later, not blocking the view. The dog follows behind to guard the rear, just in case.

Riglan turns into a cavebadger and Temo puts on the goggles. Nervously we enter.

We descend. Riglan has a sense that we're kind of descending in line with the Western hill slope. Indeed, the tunnel eventually emerges at the base of the hill on the Western flank. From there, we see it cut across the valley floor (which has a marshy stream, grooves in the mud) and into the next hill (the one with the road running over it). The four lines weaved across each other a little here but all four go into the far hill. They're very easy to see and were definitely not here the day before when we passed through. We follow through the hill under the road, emerging fairly quickly and seeing that from here, the tracks diverge - so they look to have converged from the hills around on this side of the river, then headed for us. Not really having any indicators of which to follow, we head back the way we came. We don't use the tunnels as we realise it's taken over an hour and Riglan would run out of 2hr wildshape; we know the way anyway. So we get back. The horses look surprised - we're back so soon! They look up with mouths full of feed - perhaps some guilt! - they've gone through 4 of the 6 bails.

Riglan finds this kind of hilarious and we pack up. It's about 11am. We head for Summit Hall; maybe someone there has heard about this kind of attack before. We find the road easily - and with it, we find another strange hot wind again. This time, it blows from the North West, along the road. It usually blows from the East. Maybe that means something; the creatures came from the West; could just be channelling from the hills.

At about 2pm we encounter a patrol of four mounted knights on white and grey horses with barding and armour. All have shields; two have sheathed swords; one a pike and the other no apparent weapon (we guess, maybe a mage). We're stopped and greeted. They warn that the road is unsafe. We explain briefly that we're on the way to Summit Hall, which seems to confuse them; we try to explain more; they say we'd better come with them. We start to follow.

* Nethza gets very tense.
* Maireagh and Temo don't seem to notice anything.
* Riglan only thinks that the knights are concerned by what he said and are trying to protect us. No evil intent.

Riglan tries to reassure Nethza. "But we're not, well, anybody!" she says - Riglan agrees, but thinks that perhaps they know something about all this confusing stuff we've been on the edges of.

The weaponless knight draws alongside. He's in full plate and now he's close, Riglan sees a mace head under his cloak, but it seems to be attached to a sceptre. He's in particularly fine regalia and we assume a company leader of some kind. When alongside, we feel calmer; protected; as if things would find us harder to harm. Riglan says, "Oh! That's very interesting. We don't have any high level Paladins at our tribe; I've never felt that kind of magical presence before."

The knight is called Mekel. He says that they're worried. He asks if we were close to the delegation. Riglan asks if something bad happened... Mekel doesn't answer - Lady Stormbanner will tell us. Oh. "It's possible nothing has happened? But it is not my place to say...". He instructs (female) knight Cara to ride ahead and tell them to expect us - she gallops ahead.

"We've been patrolling the area over the last few months, because there have been - the road is usually quiet, but more lately; prospectors, scholars and more, studying ancient Besilmir - along with some adventurers and treasure hunters - but there have been attacks by bugbears, Ahnkegs and Orogs lately, just as you described. This is very irregular!" - Riglan agrees and describes the "working together" of the four that attacked.

The knight explains they are Knights Of Samular, an order dedicated to Tyr, the God of justice. They aren't all worshippers, but they've a sworn oath to the cause. Summit Hall was initially established as a fortified knight's retreat, a monastery of sorts; founded by a paladin called Samular. Nowadays, Lady Ushien Stormbanner is the current Knight Commander.

We arrive. Maireagh looks surprised! "Wait, is THAT Summit Hall? But that's a Dwarven Keep!" - the knights agree; Sir Samular Karadoon found the abandoned keep and set up the monastery in it, they explain. He came from the East - he was Tytherian - this might be one of the monasteries that we read about in the Archives at Yartar. The one set up by devotees from the East, those individuals since lost to history.

It's extremely strongly fortified, made with very sturdy stone; the construction  makes it almost look like it is carved from the mountain. Beautiful, if slightly faded Dwarven runic decorations. The construction is uniquely of Dwarven construction. We ride past ajar heavy stone doors, and realise that the outer wall itself is 25 feet thick! Riglan compliments Maireagh, dwarves can *really* build! It's only two storeys, but very robust.

Younger squires etc. (knights in training) run up & help the knights. They stable our horses.

We head in. Inside, grand steps descend down another storey height roughly, so it's taller inside than it looks. There's a beautiful hearth that even in summer is lit, to provide light in this cavernous space. Freehanging, no-railing stairs provide access to stone floor levels supported by columns; the space is overall mostly open, rather than divided into rooms. There are rooms around the periphery, but there's this grand central column of about 3 storeys height. A donut.

The atmosphere isn't joyless, but is quite severe and regimented. The knights look older - e.g. the captain looked in his 50s; a lady hurries over. This is Lady Stormbanner, in her early 60s. All in really good shape but older. Even the squires are in their 30s.

Lady Stormbanner welcomes us. They're not used to guests but as it happens, they have free rooms... This confirms Riglan's suspicion. We explain in brief what occurred and that we would've expected them to arrive some time yesterday; they did not. She immediately orders a company of 6 Knights to ride out in search. It's impressive - they're ready almost immediately, fully armed and galloping out as the squires swarm around to help. The gallop off.

She offers us a room. We thank her for her kindness. She says she'll be here in the great hall when we're ready. She recommends a walk through the gardens to calm the mind.

We drop off our things and clean up a bit. The rooms are beautiful, with tall narrow windows through the crazy thick walls. It's not fancy though; not decoratively flamboyant. Just very well made and very clean and orderly.

Riglan wants to try going to the gardens to calm himself, try and be centred, reconnect with the earth; see if he can glean any insights, ask the animals, ask the plants, *anything* to try and make some sense of all this. We are shown the way; the whole rear half of the compound, it transpires, has vegetable beds, fruit trees, animals; self sufficient. A commune and a monastery then. There are even hop plants (of course!) and similar. The earth here is very different from the dry soil only supporting barren tussocky grass and scrub; here it's positively verdant. The soil supports a lot of life.

Riglan struggles to connect with everything. His staff reaches out to him and suggests he plant it in the ground and try again. He does so. He's able to use the staff's energy to do what amounts to a weak effect version of Commune With Nature (which is otherwise L5 and well beyond Riglan). Insight: Not great; 11+5.

* The things he's experienced may be connected but not as he thinks - in opposing ways; elements in opposition with each other, causing turmoil, like the elemental vision he had of fire and water and ice and earth.
* What's his role? What's the role of the delegation? Is it about them or are they just caught in the crossfire of something larger?
* We're in an area that has gone through several cycles of rebirth, renewal, decay and destruction; that's a natural thing; but when forced through wars and raw, or excessive magic, things start to wear down and recovery can sometimes only be possible by a cataclysmic rebirth - the Evermoors are an example of the land recovering. It's misunderstood - it isn't a place of decay.
* These hills feel like they may be awakening; wild, uncontrolled energies might be at work. The strange hot winds - something is out of balance in nature. When nature is out of balance, wild creatures become confused. That may be itself the reason for their behaviour, rather than nefarious command from some unseen bad actor.
* Perception crap roll (4+8), it feels like there's too much energy around rather than a lack of.

The others are just wandering around the gardens. Riglan finishes his musings and we head to the great hall.

It turns out that they're serving food at that time. People come and go to eat freely. Lady Stormbanner is talking to some of the knights. We keep distance to not interrupt, but she gestures us over so we head there and sit. Food is brought. We thank her again for her hospitality.

Riglan tries to explain his thoughts. Other knights join in; there's definitely a feel of change, with the land perhaps weakening over the last year but a significant change happened a few months ago. They've noticed that the powers of necrotic healing and resurrection are out of balance, but there's also unpredictability and wildness from the elemental magic. It may or may not be significant; older clerics there remember a time 30-35 years ago where massive changes happened and maybe caused a volcanic eruption which isn't connected to things happening now.

They're aware of the big war in the South recently, but knew about raids and so forth which ceased just before summer. So some of it might be that.

Jolliver Grimjaw arrived at Riverguard Keep about 6mo ago; also the Feathergail Waterdeep spire reoccuption was about that time; and there has been more activity, but mostly across the river. Most people avoid the Halls of Hunting Axe; it doesn't really seem related to anything else we've heard about. Most of it seems to be based more to the West, perhaps over the river.

Lady Stormbanner is going to stay up until the Knights looking for the delegation will be back, which won't be too late; probably 11pm; so we spend some downtime in the gardens, looking around the great hall and and library, waiting to see if there's any news. We end up waiting a little nervously in the great hall after around 10 and some time around 11 the knights return. Everyone sits together. They found nobody on the road and no sign of anyone riding as far as they could before sunset. Probably got half way to just over half way to Beliard, but nothing.

It transpires that the delegation were meant to be bringing back the body of one of their knights. Lady Stormbanner needs to pray to figure out what to do. She thinks word must be sent to Waterdeep - she gets a knight to ride there directly as a messenger. "We don't want war to break out again between the North and the South!". The messenger heads out at midnight.

We head to bed, intending to return ourselves to Beliard in the morning. We can at least keep our eyes peeled as we do so.

**RIGLAN DREAMS: **As he goes to sleep, Riglan is troubled. He's worried about the new friends he met on the road. What's happened to the delegation? He feels like he's floating above a valley. He sees the ruins of the Hall...Axe. He sees Summit Hall. He sees the room he's in, and around it; some people on patrol, some going to bed. He sees the Great Hall, hearth with fire still lit. Someone must tend to it. He sees white, silvery strands of moonlight filtering in through the window slits. They coalesce in a dance like wind in the main hall, travelling to the library. Riglan follows. At the back of the library, stone spiral stairs lead down. Three strands of moonlight twirl down them. Riglan follows. He pushes beyond stone doors, beyond which is a lower-ceilinged corridor. Statues and small lamps with small candles, lit, stand either side. Sarcophogi present beside them. At the end of the corridor, a sense of brightness; divine calm and peace. A sarcophagus in the centre of the room emanates this. Stone relief of a knight holding a greatsword clutched to his chest, shield at this side, with a symbol of Tyr. A healing light pulses out of the sarcophagus, but in the corners of the room, dark purple strands of light dart around between the moonlight, seeming to try and reach out and caress the healing light. They come from a near-hidden alcove with a dark, purple/black centre of energy residing. Black and dark, so it isn't really possible to see. They two are somehow connected; in balance. Closer to the alcove. Something there. If the moonlight and healing is good, this would be evil. It's leeching light from the moonlight strands. Tugging at the pulses of divine radiance beating from the sarcophagus. Riglan reaches out, wondering what it is - **and wakes up suddenly. A hand is on his shoulder. He realises that he's standing in the mausoleum and his hand was reaching towards a blank wall**. Lady Ushien is there, puzzled, asking why he's here.

The sarcophagus is of course the order's founder. It holds his ashes. Riglan describes the dream/vision's magical components. There's no alcove though. Never was, he's told. Solid wall.

She says Riglan is "neutral in alignment". Not on the extremes of good or evil. Riglan asks if that's bad, "no, it's a state of being; a state of balance." Apparently it's not uncommon for many in touch with nature. There are a few neutral devotees here, although the majority align good.

Apparently, their founder had a brother who was his opposite - they were an expression of balance. He was a powerful wizard.

"Perhaps you are someone who can sense things beyond this world?" she says.

She offers to walk him to his room, or the gardens. Turns out it's about 6am. Riglan opts for the gardens. They listen to the dawn chorus. She says they're proud of what they've built; they have to live in balance to be self-sufficient. Wishes the rest of the world could be similar. Says that they tell themselves they're fighting for something, but perhaps they're really running from the world, withdrawing. She worries about their future. People end up here on vision quests, or when they've given up. She takes on those who have admitted defeat against the forces of evil and come there to get away rather than face those challenges head on.

Riglan describes how his own tribe perhaps hides, but shouldn't. Don't lose hope. Beliard and Goldenfields have good people and good ideas. We pass ideas back and forth for a while. Time passes quickly and soon, other people are coming to the gardens, surprised to see us out. "Breakfast is served!"

She says, "If you are down this way again, know that our stone doors will always yield to your needs. Our hearth will ever burn to warm your bones. Our gardens will always nourish you". Riglan says, "Likewise; as my tribe says, you will always have a place at my campfire."
