# Riglan: Part 24
## DAY 110

Riglan wakes early; he has a sudden urgent feeling that we never checked the air temple or the air node for prisoners. He wakes Nethza and they go to the chapel, relieved to find that they can procure some incense for divination. We find a corner in the chapel and Riglan, since they burn incense here anyway, casts his ritual and asks: "Do any prisoners or slaves of the air cult survive in the air cultist temple or air node beneath?"

Riglan holds Nethza's hand while the smoke coalesces. It takes some time, then eventually shows howling caves with strange creatures running around. No humanoids are seen; the air node seems to be open, with air elementals apparently trapped orbiting around it; the cult is gone. We see little of the temple, but we know that the cloud giant had rounded people up and taken them to the surface, even picking up some lost water cult stragglers. Nethza and Riglan are both satisfied that there are no prisoners but we also see a lot of amassing elementals.

Time to go then. Nethza heads back up while Riglan takes note of a big tree in the garden. Fortunately there's one big enough to walk through. He'll return this way.

Teresiel is awake and comes down to see us as we gather in the main hall. She looks more lively - more as we remember her from our first meeting. Rhundorth is still in a chair, snoring in front of the fireplace! Spent the night drinking... We say our goodbyes, only temporarily, and Riglan brings everyone to the big garden tree and the only one he knows well near Deepgarden Keep is the one Celine told him to examine - the big garden apple tree, which Laycie had slept beneath.

Riglan tells everyone to keep very close behind him, "holding coat tails" and casts his spell, via the staff. He uses his free hand to trace circles and up/down movements, and slowly a green/cyan light sort of outlines him, a bit Faerie Fire or the spell that the colossus had used. His fur stands on end. Then he touches the staff to the tree and the light moves, forming a portal door of the same sort of colour; it's opaque, but made of light. Riglan says "now!" and dashes through.

Inside, it feels as if we walked into a wall of water - a moment of cold and a strange sensation. It feels like we're almost made of a strange jelly; Riglan looks at his arm and the shape is indistinct, just cyan and green light, with some lilac. After a few seconds of just walking forward, an indistinct portal-like shape can be made out and we walk through, emerging - dry - in Qelline's garden.

Qelline is in a neighbouring field and is very surprised! "Uuh, hi!" "Where did you come fro - oh, wait! Aaah. I was wondering when you'd learn how to do that!" "Yes, thanks for the tip to study the tree - I had an inkling but didn't know for sure." "Reidoth used to do that. He hasn't in a long time though." 

We briefly explain our exploits and say that we have to urgently proceed to Wave Echo Cave and hope she doesn't mind us leaving straight away. Temo asks if Carp's around, since he can't see him. "Well, it's autumn - Carp's at school now!" Goodness. He's growing up! Riglan feels like he should pass on a gift. Potions apparently remind Qelline too much of adventuring days, so instead he pulls out the Thurl's ornate key from Feathergale Tower. It turns out that Qelline collects them!

Apparently, the rail line to Wave Echo Cave has been completed all the way to the edge of town now, so that'll help. We chat a while about where we're going next; Qelline warns us about how you might lose yourself at Waterdeep. Temo pipes up and says, "Thank you, but our home is here, at Owlbear Tower - we'll definitely be back!"

Before we leave, Qelline finds one last bag of summer apples - we insist on paying - then we say goodbye and head out towards the edge of town. We drop in at Font of Fancy as Temo has an inkling that they might want Unrayle's tapestry. They're very impressed and offer 400gp! We accept gratefully as this matches Maireagh's estimate. They also enquire about gems, since they're looking for something for a special customer - they end up buying one of our big blue sapphires for a whopping 1000gp. As we leave, Temo comments that he never knew there was this much money in the town - Wave Echo Cave is paying dividends it seems.

We pass by Lion Shield Coster and enquire if they're after anything precious there. They have a budget of up to around 500gp of jewellery. We have a lot of stupid valuable stuff but also 5 bloodstones we didn't get Gorx to eat, so we sell those for 250gp along with 5 of our 15 moonstones for another 250. Maireagh has her old shield and warhammer which she's not attached to and they're interested in those, and after some bargaining she gets 14gp for them. She sells her steel mirror too

That all done, we head out, past the south farms and reach a small wooden platform, with the end of a set of elevated tracks beyond. We stand around for a moment wondering what to do. Temo: Investigation 21; no levers or anything. As he's searching, Riglan (perception 26) something moving in the distance and he says, "Ah, I think it just goes back and forth all day - there's something coming in the distance" - and indeed, after about 15 minutes, a railway car with a single engine comes along, same as we've used once before. It pulls up and various dwarves and gnomes come off; we step aside for them to head into town. It looks like they've finished a shift; they seem tired but happy.

We ask the driver for passage back to the cave. "Alright! Hold on, I just need to figure this out..." - there seems to be a rather involved process for unhooking the carriage and using a winch that turns the track section on which the engine rests through 180 degrees. It seems it can push or pull the carriage, but the engine itself can only go forwards. There's a break while the driver eats a sandwich, then we get ready to go. "Keep your hands and feet inside" - looks at Temo - "and no dangling off the side!"

After a while, the train seems to pick up quite a lot of speed, travelling mostly in a straight and level line. Temo chuckles at Riglan's ears flopping around in the wind. He's about to lean out but gets told off by the driver. In only about half an hour, we are already at the swamp edge; the train slows here as the line is a bit more undulating and winding. It's another 20-30 minutes before it stops at the other edge of the swamp, at the rocky ground before the stairs up to the main cave entrance.

We disembark and thank the driver, going past another group of people waiting. The driver is getting out another sandwich!

The cave is quite different now. The walkways are clean. There's an office off to the side checking people in and out. Continual flame lights are all around. There is some security with guards - "Halt! You don't look like miners... Are you here for business?" and we say yes, and we're wondering if Gundren is around, business down at the forge. We're told "Lord Gundren" (!) is here and say "Maireagh and party" is here. A few minutes later he comes running out!

There are the usual enthusiastic greeting. They're especially fond of the railway. We're offered a tour and accept. Gundren fetches a big bunch of keys from the office and starts showing us various cleaned up and reopened tunnels, rooms for people who want to stay and sleep out here rather than travelling to and fro, and talks about the more than 50 people now employed. It's a community and everyone has found it good for Deepgarden Keep - Gundren says it's everything he hoped for. Yay. "You know - they're even considering excavating, cleaning out and repairing the old keep in town! Wouldn't that be a sight."

The various buildings in the forge cavern are fully repaired, with a few temporary structures added alongside. There is even an area to play games of curling. The culverts are repaired with water flowing well. Since we're now down at the forge, Riglan says, "so you remember that strange trident we melted on the forge, bit dramatic? Well, we've got the sequel with us - very dangerous..." Gundren rings a big bell and gets people to leave the level for a short while (!) - safety reasons! - and gets guards posted on the forge house door.

We go in. The forge is burning at a low level. Maireagh opens the bag, Nethza takes Riglan's shield and Riglan carefully pulls out the wrapped spear with his free hand while still holding onto the Voice Of Ilpharn. Temo and Maireagh go to the forge to try and stoke it up with some cantrips which seems to help; then Maireagh casts Guidance on Riglan. **Riglan unwraps the spear.**

As he takes of the water cult robes, Riglan once again sees the gleaming, beautiful sphere with its huge inset diamond. He'd forgotten how amazing it looks. As soon as he touches it, he hears a voice...

"Ah. Yes. It is time. I have been watching you - you have done very well. You have saved everyone. You should be proud of yourself."

Riglan is walking towards the forge with the spear.

"What are your plans, Riglan? What do you intend to do?" (and as he hears this, he starts to hear druidic voices from Ilpharn trying to cut through)

Riglan tries to put the spear into the forge, by means of an answer. Wisdom saving throw (advantage) - Yan-C-Bin's voice from the spear remaining patient and gentle, persuasive... "Don't you have a mission to see the world and bring knowledge of it to your people? Knowledge happens to be my speciality. Knowledge, because I touch everything the wind touches. I see everything the wind reaches. I am the sky, I am the clouds, I am the spark of life that rides the lightning. I am the electricity that courses through your veins when you stand out in the storm... I know you know what I mean..." Riglan interrupts and says, "and you will be better off whole, where you should reside, in your own domain" - the spear argues - wisdom saving advantage, **FFS only a 2 and a 3! Highest roll is 12.**

Insight check 14 + guidance, 17. Riglan can sense the deception, but it's persuasive anyway. Yan-C-Bin will promise just about anything, *but* it's all true; he has that knowledge and could deliver it. He promises the world. Riglan stops in his tracks for a moment. The druids of Ilpharn argue back. "Knowledge has never been the problem. Knowing what to *do* with knowledge - that has always been the key. That's what has always led to destruction. Those who have held steadfast in the face of the elemental princes have been wise and they've had to make difficult decisions..."

Everyone else sees Riglan's eyes go white. They don't know what to do.

Riglan is in another realm. He senses himself in a grand, beautiful hall, deep underground, 40ft high perfectly carved stone, decorated, inlaid with gems. This is Tyar Besil, when new. A princess watches from the shadows, observing an old worried dwarf wearing a familiar circlet - the crown we recovered. The dwarf walks the halls, the princess following at a distance. Two advisors flank the king. "My lord, you cannot do this! You will bring the entire kingdom into ruin!" "I have no choice... There is nothing else that we can do..." "But we have broken the siege. We simply need to return to the surface. We can return. We can return our families to the lands above. Have you not been dreaming of this day for decades? We owe it to everyone to do this. You are our king! It is your - your job, your divine role - to lead us back to the light." "I *am* your king, but we do not live in isolation. There are lessons from ancient Ilpharn, when all the races worked together, we were not kings of individual kingdoms; we were a council of rulers and leaders. We are responsible for the world. I cannot bring us to the surface because to do so would open the path. It would open the way for that which we have found beneath us. **Besilmir must die to keep everything hidden and locked away from the world**. I understand now. **This is our fate.**"

The advisors plead. "You're dooming our nation!" "It is either our nation, or our entire world. We have to do this. And we have to do it right now." "But nobody will know what will become of us!" "There is no time, they're coming through now. You've seen the reports, from our sages and scouts. The princes are coming through. We must do it now. Summon our mages. We must create the earthquake and collapse this kingdom." The princess has a look of despair, and tries running for the entrance to escape as the whole kingdom starts to shake and collapse. Yan-C-Bin's voice echoes; "You have but delayed us. We will find another. Always we will find another. **Greed is eternal!** *That* is my power."

Riglan, seeing this and learning what he's just learned, is jarred back to himself by realising how much that information would mean to Maireagh. And with that, he lurches forward and tries to shove the spear into the forge. Athletics: total 21. He throws Windvane into the forge. There is a scream; Temo reaches for it himself, shouting, "No!" - has it been talking to *everyone* in the room? - but then a huge crackle and boom throws everyone back 20ft, slamming against the wall as the spear folds and crumbles in on itself, like tinsel, the diamond refusing to give way but then suddenly exploding into glass-like shards. There's a thunderous howling voice that screams; in Riglan's other hand, he feels the voices of Ilpharn releasing, battling and ripping at the Yan-C-Bin voice, to push it into the forge. Riglan loses consciousness.

Temo, meanwhile, has been seeing and hearing promises of magic, spells; him graduating from the Arcane Brotherhood Academy in Luskan at the top of his class, given coloured robes of bright blue, handed an orb and rod with a gem at the end, everyone clapping him on as becomes a great wizard. Windvane - Yan-C-Bin - promises that all of this will come to pass. This is what the world owes him; what he should have been and can still be. All he must do is use Windvane and harness the knowledge. "He seeks to destroy *your future*" says Yan-C-Bin as Riglan lurches forward. This is when Temo dives forward but is thrown back by the force before he can reach it. While everyone else gets knocked out, Temo's dexterity means he's able to remain conscious. He sees Riglan's staff actually *physically* rise up and enter the forge, pulling all of Yan-C-Bin's power in. There's a bright flash of green and eventually the forge flame reduces down to a small flicker. The staff lies on the ground.

Temo cautiously picks up Riglan's staff. There's a small bend at the top, where the branches which used to open like a tree are now more twisted, in the way he'd seen the druidic spirits twist to contain Yan-C-Bin. It's withered now, almost like a crook. He looks at Riglan and is conflicted. He looks over to Maireagh, Nethza and Gundren. They're all unconscious. He goes to Maireagh, finds her pouch with a potion of healing and pours it into her mouth.

"What happened?! Why were you reaching for the thing?" She shakes him!

Temo says, "Riglan shouldn't have done that."

Maireagh looks around and casts Cure Wounds on Nethza and Riglan.

Temo, meanwhile, Wisdom 19-1. He comes back to himself, rationalising and realising that he was being fooled. It was just an alluring dream - it's why he left home, before his parents disappeared. Temo hands Riglan his staff.

Riglan can see it's different and the moment he holds it, he's pulled into a vision. Yan-C-Bin is screaming in frustration in a realm of storms - cyclones. Riglan stands in the howling caves, looking almost to the edge of reality as if through a thick glass pane. The madness is contained behind. It's reminiscent of his dream of Imix. The howling caves themselves no longer howl; there is no sign of elementals or the air node. There are just a few cave dwelling animals.

A hand rests on Riglan's shoulder. It's one of the druids from his staff. Standing next to her is another... And a third. The stand beside him as the glass moves further and further back. There is the sensation of transport through time, to Phalorm, to the end of the Empire of Ilpharn. "Our age has come to an end. The oldest of these trees may survive, but our forests and our kingdom have passed on to another world. And so, we too shall leave this world." One says, "We will be the first to leave. I know some of the children today will set off to establish an island nation of elves, but not us." Another says, "Our place is amongst the stars, where we will carry on our work, debates and songs, agelessly for all time." They step onto a kind of boat made of a huge leaf with tendrils that curl into flowers, which floats up. The last druid turns to Riglan and holds his hand. "You have come into your own. A young Firbolg you are no longer; you are one of us now and we are very proud to welcome you into the fold. We leave the fate of this world and its forests in the hands of the children. Our job is done. We will always be close at hand if you ever need to speak to us, but we need guide you no longer. Go well, my son." She steps onto the boat which closes up and shoots rapidly into the sky, turning into a star.

Riglan comes back to the himself. He looks at his staff. **It is the shepherd of Ilpharm**.

Riglan lies his staff very carefully on the floor, kneels down and he and Temo embrace for a while. Nethza says, "I want a piece of that!" and comes over to hug. Maireagh's a bit busy with Gundren! He awakens - "What in the world was that?! Oh we're hugging. OK." - group hug then!

Later we compare notes and Riglan explains the madness as best he can. We pitch in to help a bit with repairing some of the damage caused by the explosion. The other workers coming back are full of questions - the noise was heard all through the cave.

**"Thanks for helping us save the world again"** says Riglan to Gundren. He offers us lunch, so we head to the restored dining hall. Two long tables are able to seat around 30 people each. A loud bell is rung, which echoes through the caves and the sounds of machinery and other work quieten as various people start to file into the room. Big bowls of hot stew and roast game birds arrive, with a lot of bread and a light ale. Nundro is here! We great him warmly. He's been doing the financial books apparently. He remarks on the weather suddenly kind of resolving itself - we mention that this was part of the reason we came here.

### (250 XP for destroying Windvane)

We finish lunch, chat for a while and after a bit, people need to get back to work. The train apparently runs every couple of hours, so we head back. The driver has the customary sandwich at each end. We're back around mid-afternoon and decide to visit Koza at Blackfinger Forge so Maireagh can say hi. There's a catch-up chat and an exchange of ideas and inventions. Eventually, Koza needs to sleep, so we head out.

Bakeries are closed, but the town still seems lively. Cobblestones are repaired; shops look clean and there are no empty buildings we can see. A couple of large barges are going by on the river. Kids have a new game - throwing marshmallows from the bridges at the barges! Even if the barge captains don't like it, the ducks do.

We stop by at Elder Barge. We can hear the music from the bridge and so we head in. It's packed. They remember us; "It's been a long time!"; we get a table outside so we can watch the world go by at the river. We have to wait about ten minutes! It's good to see it so busy. Three people are playing music, a few are dancing, many are eating large fish being brought out on stone crockery. The barman proudly shows us new taps - they have 6 things on tap now; local ales, meads and ciders are available. There's something the humans made called a "pilsner", a colder but more bitter thing; Nethza asks if it's like a lager, "it is but better!" and she has one, so Riglan shrugs - why not! - and we all do the same. Maireagh kindly pays and by then a table becomes free. We squeeze around it by the river as the sun sets over the bridge to the West, over the hills hiding Cragmore Castle, where we rescued Gundren and defeated the Black Spider. The sky turns a beautiful pinkish-orange as lights in town start to be lit. The food is, almost inevitably, great. Maireagh has a brandy to finish.

We stay until dark, then at Temo's request we head to the farm, hoping not to intrude on Qelline & Carp's home time. Temo knocks. Qelline has assumed we might want the room and it's free so we gratefully accept. 5sp - we give a gold, since we seem to have more of those these days! Carp is super excited but accuses us of drinking (!) - correct... Temo and Carp go and play. Nethza brought some cheese from the tavern (!) so we have that. We end up going outside to watch the stars, as it is a very clear night - over in the distance Temo and Carp are running around in the fields, making merry.

It's a long catch-up chat. Maireagh produces the remaining brandy - Qelline is a little reluctant, but Temo's looking after Carp so we all share the drink. Qelline starts to tell us tales about places she's visited. Waterdeep is great, Baldur's Gate is a cesspool - nothing but crime! - and so-on. Eventually Carp comes over and insists that Maireagh and the dog join in the play; Nethza joins in too. Qelline looks to Riglan. "You've caught the bug, haven't you? You want to solve all of the world's problems. There's always another thing to solve; it's endless. You can do so much good but you can lose your life to it..." Riglan says, "Well, I've been doing my best to cut my life short lately but if I try not to be too foolish I should have a couple of good centuries."

The conversation continues for a while.

"Can I give you a piece of advice, from a 43-year old to a 100-year old? It took me travelling the whole of the Sword Coast, coming within a hair's breadth of death numerous times, falling in and out of love several times, to realise just how big the world was and how much more of it I have not seen. And at the same time, knowing that I could create my own happiness by shrinking the world down to a manageable size; life is what you make of it. You must find what makes you happy. Understand yourself and create that happiness for yourself. If you chase something you don't know, you'll never find it and could chase the universe for it with no purpose, easily led astray easily manipulated until you find yourself lost. I know we were nearly there and it took a lot for me to give it all up, but I'm happier now with Carp and my farm than I think I could ever have been if I had continued chasing unknown dreams of untold treasures. I know some of my old travelling companions think I've given up, but this life, to me, is a life. I hope you can find your happiness some day, however many years it is from now, and find peace after you've walked the Path of the Wanderer."

Riglan talks about family. He mentions Temo. Qelline has to think about Carp; she doesn't want him abandoned again. She wants to give him the best childhood.

Riglan nods. And he says, "**All of those people over there taught me more than I ever thought I could know about bravery. Nethza, perhaps, acceptance; self confidence. Maireagh, it would be intelligence and for sure, beauty. She doesn't see it in herself, but I do. And Temo? Temo taught me about justice and most of all loyalty. You do have to think of your own family. But I doubt you would ever need to worry about Temo abandoning anyone.** Though - maybe - holding off anything too serious until he himself is ready to settle from his wandering days!"

"I think there will be plenty of time and opportunity for things", says Qelline. She confesses to being "quite fond" of him. "He's quite handsome - and very charming".

Riglan asks permission to take Carp to see something in the morning before school - promises he'll be quite safe and won't be late. "Temo says he'll walk me to school tomorrow!" Qelline puts him to bed. We leave them in peace to get ready for the night and set up ourselves in the cottage. Temo plays softly on his lute and Riglan has chat, explaining what he has in mind in the morning, but also just mentioning that if we're going to adventure more from here, we have to be a little careful not to get Carp relying on us or expecting us to be here. There'll be time for that when we find ourselves more settled.

Later, we fall asleep.

Riglan has a "soft" dream. Nothing is-it-real-or-not, not a nightmare; he feels as if he's sitting in fields, or under trees in forests, chatting to druids, chatting to the Valhalla tribe Chieftan, or his friends the wolves, the ghost rabbit he followed once, talking philosophy, a pair of turtles debating astronomy; chatting to a chorus of giant tree frogs. Things are peaceful, with no sense of intrusion or urgency - just a sense of wonderment and peace in exploration. Contentment.

## DAY 111

Maireagh makes a small breakfast. There's a knock on the door; Carp is there, ready for school. Temo says, "OK, now Riglan?" and Riglan nods. Temo says, "OK Carp, we're going to show you something really cool."

We head outside and Temo says, "Don't be scared" - and Riglan wildshapes into a giant eagle. Temo gets up, and uses some rope to tie around and make it safe and gets Carp up sat in front of him, then Riglan flies up. Riglan flies around the town at first, then starts to go higher and higher. We can see mountains and forests and rivers, which dwindle to glistening silver snakes in the early morning sun. Temo says, "**Carp, look - the natural world; it's so big, yet so fragile. This will be your world soon - try to protect it if you can.**"

And we fly around a little more, but don't him to be late for school so we come back down and land back. Everyone dismounts and Riglan pops back.

Temo walks Carp to school, then returns and we all walk to the tree. "Next time we come back, let me know how cool this looks!" says Riglan and the process of the spell and travelling happens again. The colours and sensations are similar, then, just a few seconds later - Summit Hall.

We go to the main hall and see if Teresiel around and she's already up and packed. Riglan says, "I think those last bits of not-quite-right weather should resolve now..." "Yes, I've felt it. It feels like the cold has finally set in!" Rhundorth has already organised a cart that he'll take on the road down to Beliard then Womford. We thank him for joining us in battle and wish him well; tell him to look us up if he's ever in Deepgarden Keep. We thank the Knight Commander, Lady Ushien, too.

We head out and start on the path for the boat. The journey takes a couple of days. At the end of the first day, we're camping; Riglan creates a druid grove through his staff's newfound powers. He puts the staff into the ground, willing it to turn into a tree. The crook part kind of unwinds itself, to its old shape but then grows and becomes a 25ft tall tree. The area around rises up and starts to form a small druid grove. He's never seen this before. Four of the trees animate into tree guardians, too; the area fills with a gentle mist which feels cooling but looks like a fog on the river bank from around. The ground is covered in ferns, but outside there are spikes and vines. Riglan realises that he can remove the staff at which point the magically altered landscape returns to normal.

## DAY 112

(When the staff is removed, the grove withdraws and the landscape returns to normal. Boat journey to Goldenfields - we pass by Bargewright Inn but don't stay there; Teresiel is happier camping anyway!)

## DAY 113

Just after midday, we're approaching Goldenfields. The river has been wider and busier, with more barges carrying goods. The terrain around is flatter, mostly flood plains; hills are a distance away with mountains further still. There's a rise nearby to the South with a fortified town, with high stone walls; Teresiel says that this town is our destination.

It's not what Riglan expected! We pull up along the East side of what is in fact a very large, fully walled town. Even from a couple of miles away we can see that the walls are very tall; we can see a northern flank with a wall that must be at least four *miles* long, dotted with guard towers that look almost like open-air (at the top) columned temples. Getting closer, we estimate that the walls may be 60-80ft high at least, the guard towers rising higher still.

As we come alongside, we see the North-South extent, which we guess stretches around *seven miles* - this place is really big, its size emphasised by the remarkable roads. The dock area is a little further South, beyond the fortifications, with warehouse-like wooden buildings. Four other barges are already docked - no deep hulled ships, though. The river here is wide - as wide as 1-1.5 miles but shallow. We dock and Riglan asks Teresiel if she knows if we just tie the boat up or speak to someone. She suggests that we just pull the boat ashore on the bank, rather than on a pier, so that's what we do; we see some boat sheds, but after some conversation with someone at the boat house, Teresiel suggests we keep the boat outside, but has a tarp. We cover the boat and leave it there. "Are you happy to follow my lead?" she asks. Yep!

She starts asking how we get from here, into Goldenfields. She's told that we'll want to take a cart - lots of carriages and carts head that way and are usually happy to take fares heading *into* Goldenfields as they are empty after unloading at the docks. Apparently more than 1sp each would be a ripoff, heh. As this conversation moves on, Temo is already looking and spots something easily (passive investigation is good enough, but on top of that there's an active roll of 27). He finds two wagons - we have to split into those - 5sp, so we agree and have transport! Yay.

Temo, Teresiel and Riglan take one; Nethza, Maireagh and the dog take the other, at the wagon driver suggestion, to keep the weight even. Riglan chats to the driver... What's significant, how does it all work...? We're told that the wagon drivers tend to live out at the docks landing as, apparently, there's not much space for housing inside. Riglan looks back and notices a small settlement and tavern behind the warehouses, easier to see now we're on the road. It's a hamlet.

It only takes about 15-20 minutes to get to Goldenfields - longer than it might have been as the route is a little circuitous. We actually go south first, then turn and join a big, wide road, with a sign - Riglan's not too used to seeing those! - one pointing South, "Waterdeep" and another points North, "Goldenfields". A third points back the way we came - "Jundar's Landing"; so, that's what it's called.

We join on the large road a steady stream of traffic; carts, horses, mules, the odd farm animal... Ahead we see large stone gates set on what is the South-West-ish wall of Goldenfields and can see now that the wall geometry is complex, not just a rectangle; it seems to run in straight segments, roughly tracing contours of the small rise / hill on which the town seems to sit. Close up, outside the city, are plenty of fields. These aren't farming fields like Riglan might have seen at Sungift or Deepgarden Keep. There are mixed plantings, many trees, even some fruit tree groves; things aren't always in rows - they seem to be in curving patterns, with fields separated by fences which don't form squares. Some look more like segments of a pie!

Up close, the walls are clearly mortared stone and really huge. There are patrols walking up atop the walls, which seems reasonable given the walls, but still is surprising - this was meant to be a farm, but it certainly seems incredibly heavily defended! The giant stone watch towers of varying designs are at an estimated 1 mile apart along the walls. At ground level, at the base of the walls, the land is just grass or bare. Trees get no closer than maybe 150ft before there's a very clear space. Surprisingly though, Riglan sees suddenly many vines and bushes growing along the *top* of the walls and even up along into the towers. At a distance it had just looked like colouration of the stone.

There are no papers checked or other apparent security, and the great doors are opened outwards, not open inwards; they'd be harder to close if there was an attack as someone would have to run outside and pull them inwards. The road here is made of stone paving, causing the carts to rock and clatter over the surface. As we go through, we estimate that the walls are around 30ft wide at the base, tapering to perhaps 20ft at the top; the gatehouse is deep, maybe 50ft. Even more surprising, there are people working on sections of walls that look like they were quite seriously damaged with repairs underway - 10ft holes gouged out. Signs of a recent attack? Teresiel is surprised too. The cart drivers tell us that they were attacked by *scores* of hill giants, ogres and etins! The defences were clearly very heavily hit but did manage to hold. The cart owners say they'd seen them while on the road and fled towards the river, fearing attack; but they were not the target - the aggressors just went straight to the city. It was at night. 30-40 hill giants at a guess, and scores more of etins and ogres! Another driver says there were orcs, too, but there's dispute about that.

The cobbled road terminates only around 100ft after the gatehouse at a beautiful fountain in a circular plaza. All the other roads seem to be dirt roads, with some rutting and hoof prints, or paths with just foot traffic. The carts have to stop here. They're going to load up - we thank them and disembark. It's busy, but not mad; it doesn't feel like a city.

Riglan: Perception adv 19,20! + 9 -> 29. This is not a city filled with humanoids - but it is **one of the most richly alive places he has ever been** - even more alive than a forest. It sounds and *feels* just full of life. The roads, he realises, run along the walls, but after that it just seems to be crisscrossing paths, meandering as if in forest. It's uneven ground - the natural top of the hill (later, we learn, hill*s*). To some it might seem chaotic; to Riglan it seems to make sense, as if following lines of water and flow of air. There is a statue of a plump woman holding sheaths of wheat, fruit and vegetables piled up to her knees and with a carved depiction of water flowing around. It reminds Riglan of the statue of **Chauntea**, goddess of bountiful harvest, way back in Sungift - indeed it is probably a depiction of the same.

As far as he can see there are just orchards, general trees, plants; as with the fields outside, it's not in rows but there is a certain order. Some areas are all fruit trees, others all flowers, others all bushes, or mixes of particular bushes and trees. Animals wander around in and amongst all of it. Riglan then realises that some of the *trees are moving* - they seem to be small treeants! There are a few buildings here and there, but they're low-lying and tucked into apparently naturally-stony parts of hills. There is the odd watchtower and one or two taller buildings. But this still feels less urban than even Sungift - certainly less than Verrunsgard or Deepgarden Keep and very, very different from Yartar.

A building nearby catches the eye. It's made of stone, with an open front without a door, above which in floral, curvy writing, is a sign: "Earth Mother's Bounty". Riglan says, "How about we start in there?", pointing. Teresiel thinks that whoever is in there should be able to tell us where the **Abbot is - Ellardin Darovik** who she is charged with meeting.

Inside, we see an older, stout, brown-skinned female halfling, looking up from behind large hessian bags of seeds and grain. There are large urns of vegetables and so-on; many shelves of glass jars with all kinds of nuts; a section at the back has a rolling ladder to access racks of jars, the full width of the back wall, 15 rows high, of what seem to be carefully-labelled seeds. "Welcome! What are you looking for? What do you need?" - Teresiel introduces herself, but then starts speaking with hand motions as well as words. It's strange but Riglan recognises this as a druidic form of speech. The hands indicate what you *mean* and it seems that it can be used to help prevent people overhearing and getting the full story. She explains about her capture, that she's with the Emerald Enclave and that it's imperative we reach the abbot. He looks over at the others; they seem a little confused; he realises that they aren't getting any of the subtext and just hear the literal words - "hi, we're new, looking for shelter" - innocuous. The halfling touches a pin - Emerald Enclave - and nods towards Riglan, seeing his. She is **Sevembra Tumbleleaf**. She signals - using the same mixture of hand gestures and speech - that we're safe, in fact, that we are *home*, to be at peace; she will fetch the abbot. She asks if we need shelter or healing; Teresiel is focused first on seeing the Abbot. Riglan indicates that a place to stay would be welcome if it is available, though we can always return to the docks and stay there; but we're welcomed in and led outside the shop and along a path. Maireagh is surprised that she's just leaving the shop - who will guard it? She offers the dog. "Guard against what?" says a surprised Sevembra. "What if someone comes to purchase something?" - but learns that nothing here is for *sale* - one simply takes what one *needs*. Most people here can read the labels and find what they need; she curates it and likes being around seeds and being around to help people. "Coin has no meaning here."

As we walk, Sevembra and Maireagh talk more about the concept that seems so strange to Maireagh. They've never found a need for commerce inside the town as they have plenty, far more than they need; they sell to the outside world, and pay for things they need to bring in - such as building materials - that way. There is an external economy but not an internal one.

Well, that explains the walls and gates. Without that, people would take too much.

This is an enclave, but a very privileged one. There seem to be no needs here; everything is looked after and everything is provided for. But that said, it's not on a global scale.

It's quite a long walk - more than a mile - eventually reaching and area with radiating paths out to tucked-in little log-built houses, sunk down a little bit. This is the "town", apparently; huts, long houses, burrows. Livestock is more obvious here, a few fenced in but still able to eat plenty around. Sheep, chickens, turkeys, pigs, goats, cows; a few people looking like shepherds seem to be moving some around from one grazing area to another.

We approach one of the larger buildings we've seen inside, stone, but elaborate and covered in plants; it's kind of open air with only part of it covered by a roof, various statutes of gods around too. Chauntea seems to have pride of place but there are also elven goddesses, human, dwarven - all goddesses, not gods; Maireagh is surprised because the building is 6-700 years old, but not dwarven. She asks who built it. Sevembra says that it was "druids of old", which is why it is devoted to many different religions and so open. Inside, two old black bears are wondering around snuffling around to find bits of food. They seem harmless! We are taken to a courtyard near the back where there are many strange flowering plants and large trees with droopy white flowers. Riglan suspects they are halluciongenic. Standing in the middle is a dark-skinned, young half-elf. He turns and greets us. The tree with the flowers lifts its branches and stands up, then moves aside to make more space; it's an awakened tree, but not a treeant.

Teresiel moves forward and now speaks in full Druidic. She introduces herself and recites a short passage in a tongue he doesn't recognise, but her hand actions identify herself as a member of the Emerald Enclave from the forests of the far North-East, hugging the spine of the world. She describes what happened and then, at last, she produces the pouch of seeds. Sevembra, seeing this, gasps. The abbot walks forward - almost not believing it - and empties the seeds. The tree leans forward, causing some slight shade to fall, at which Riglan notices for the first time that the seeds have a glimmer of light to them. The abbot puts the seeds back into the pouch. "So it is time then. It is time for these to be passed on. I was not expecting this..." Teresiel responds, "No, indeed, we never know when this is needed. But I fear my time on this plane is drawing to an end. I have been the guardian of these seeds now for around 500 years. I pass this responsibility to you, abbot, for your protection." "Why me? I am not long-lived. I can be a custodian of these seeds for a century at most..." "There is none other suitable to guard and protect these that we know of. This is perhaps the safest place for them to be. It is for you to find your successor." "I've never understood why we keep all seven of these in *one place* with *one person*! These are the *last* of these seeds - would it not be safer to split them up and spread them?" Teresiel shrugs; "Perhaps - take that up with the elders!"

"Welcome, Spring Warden" he says to Riglan - "it is always welcome to meet the next generation". He tells Sevembra that he'll look after us now; he calls the bears and they say (Riglan and Teresiel understand) "come with me", so we follow them, the others of our party in tow. We reach an area of quite churned up earth in the middle of the village - looks like a dancing place? - and are led to a longhouse. There is a short flight of wooden stairs into an airy, quite cool wooden log house. Air flows through from all around. There are various items of bedding and furs. Towards the back where the longhouse meets the hill, there seems to be a more substantial wall and fireplace for heat and cooking. We thank the bears, which stay down below, and the bears head off snuffling around for more food.

We spread out a bit and find spaces we like. Maireagh is a bit uncomfortable in something this open - she doesn't really understand what's going on. "These people seem overly civil and nice, but detached?" Riglan explains all of the conversations as he's heard them, but agrees that there's a certain sense of detachment, and that it was interesting that the abbot didn't expect the seeds to come to him. It wasn't necessarily a welcome moment. Riglan asks, "But Teresiel, you're by no means old. Why did you say your time on this plane may be ending soon?" "I'm not young either! I have very little time left - perhaps 50 years, maybe 75" - this surprises Riglan. "After that time, I will start to age... I think I shall head for the stars, into the Astral where I will stop ageing" - Riglan understands at this - "I have been on this plane for 600 years. I have seen a lot." Riglan says, "Well, there are some very good elven druid friends of mine up in the stars - I hope you get to meet them."

There's a knock on the door. A young satyr pops a head in - "The abbot said to bring this to you... Teresiel?" - she gets given a new pin made of amber. She's pleased at that! She looks around and sees a cloak hanging on a hook near the door, wraps herself with this and pins it. The satyr says that we're welcomed to join for a feast later - "the sun is nearly down; can you find your own way?" Riglan says, "we're new here, so maybe show us?" and we are led down into another area of the village, set back against a small gully with trees growing up over it and extra wooden struts and supports bridging them with thatching, to form a long hall of sorts from the natural environment. There are long tables inside. The entrance has beautiful wooden carvings and various people are arriving. One group of 20-ish people in armour are leaving as we arrive - we're told it's the night watch. Food is pouring out from a kitchen area at the back onto the tables. A lot of vegetables, cheeses and so-on; a little meat but not much, mostly just fish or birds.

We see the abbot, who calls us to his table. We all sit; food is shared around. People are asking Tereseil a lot about how she is; she looks at us, and signals to Riglan - "How much can we say?" Riglan signals back an equivalent of surprise then understanding; "even here, perhaps we don't mention Tyar Besil by name? Just catacombs?" In the end she sort of leads us into conversation by describing her rescue. Riglan is happy to discuss the cults and magic, but avoids place names just in case of anyone wanting to start a gold rush! He also asks when the recent giant attack we'd been told about happened and if it had felt like the culmination of a growing unease and instability, or if it was more of an ongoing issue. The abbot says they've never had trouble from hill giants before. The attack was 3 nights ago. That is a bit of a worry - we'd defeated Unrayle by then, and Autumn had suddenly kicked off, but we know that things were still not quite right until Windvane was destroyed - which fits with the 3 nights. Perhaps that was just an attack that was already set in motion by the elemental chaos and didn't just stop happening with such a large amassed force. The giants retreated East afterwards and guards are much stronger presently as a result. Definitely after food though - that's all Goldendfields has.

We're introduced to **Ziliang**, a female monk who was on the walls the night of the attack. It was strange; she's never seen that kind of behaviour before; hill giants are not know for working together. They were organised and yet not organised - a mixture, some ogres, a couple of etins and a handful of hobgoblins with quite a lot of goblins, perhaps not too surprising - but around *thirty* hill giants. If they'd worked in unison, perhaps they'd have brought down the walls, but they didn't really seem to have leadership; some attacked the walls, others were arguing with each other, others holding back. After a few were injured, they retreated; it was strange.

Riglan suggests - perhaps hopefully! - that it was indeed the elemental magic surging that had caused them to amass and they'd just sort of kept going through the inertia of it, attacking but by that time with Unrayle gone and Ogremoch sent back with node closed, maybe the motivation and guiding hand was lacking. After a few injuries it might have been enough to disperse. Ziliang wants to investigate further. The abbot tries to dissuade her; she's needed here. Temo laughs and looks at Riglan. Riglan looks at Maireagh. Maireagh looks at Nethza. Nethza looks at Temo. Riglan says, "Well... I mean, if you had a path of investigation in mind, we could always have a look...!" "No, well, I just have a feeling - they crossed back over the river - I want to head that way, see if I can find out where they came from. Is there a camp? Are they organised in a settlement? There's too much unknown."

The abbot relents - this is clearly important - he gives Ziliang his blessing. Find the answers she seeks. "Where you are headed, will you need coin?" he asks. "I don't think so..." but she is given some just in case. We ask if she wants company or wants to keep to herself, low profile. "Until I know more, I think travelling as stealthily and lightly as I can might be wise." Temo hands her a paper bird. "Should you find yourself in need, you can use this." She thanks him, bids everyone farewell and leaves.

The abbot says, "She's a young one! She is wise but I fear she follows her heart too much." Riglan says, "Well, I feel the urgency too, though I think it's hopefully related to the evil we've pushed back - at least for the next few centuries - which is why we were offering to go too. But it sounds like something she wants to check out herself and she seems capable!"

We learn that now, Teresiel intends to head back up north, tidy her affairs and head out, stopping by Shadowtop to see some old friends then make her way to the coast; find a ship that'll take her to "the island" ("the island?" asks Riglan) "- I've heard there's an island off the coast, South of Baldur's Gate, a few days sail, past 'The Gnomes', an island out in the middle of the sea. They say to seek this island if you wish to see the stars. I feel at once young again, but also incredibly old now that I've passed on this charge. This has been my responsibility and secret for half a millennium. I protected it through the Spell Plague even though I thought I might need to use them during the times of trouble when the Gods walked the earth and all hope felt like it had failed, the weave torn asunder but I wasn't even sure if the magic would work. They never lost their light though." Riglan asks how she deals with the sense of loss of purpose. "I feel like I now have a choice. I can choose. I can choose something that is just for me."

We're asked what we're doing next. Riglan remembers Qelline's words - alaays thread to pull on - Renwick; the library at Summit Hall; see Reidoth and the monolith; the entrances to the Tyar Besil districts below; and of course Reulek's Crown. He talks of some of that, perhaps the crown feeling like our obligation, if we still have any, most of all.

For now though he's just curious, having wanted to visit here for ages; it seems almost too good to be true. What's the catch - why hasn't this been replicated? His own forest is slowly being eaten away by Sungift, only a tiny village where people have almost nothing and he wants to find ways to help them live off the land without destroying it. They seem to do that here, after a fashion; but this place is unique. Why?

The abbot answers, "You are very welcome to stay and watch, ask questions and learn. We're happy to share our techniques - ways to grow intensively, but very healthy food. It needs to be done at scale, though, to succeed. We managed to grow enough here only by taking all of these hills and converting them into our way of growing. In the beginning we could feed people working here and surrounding villages, the eventually enough for growing populations here and around. The key is though that we can't grow much more - as the number of people on the land increases, it changes the pressure placed on the land, which is difficult for settlements to understand. Our solution is to try and grow more and more as the land comes into its own balance - given free reign, the earth can produce a great bounty! With a little bit of care and tending, it can consistently produce more, every year, always, all the time. We've chosen to sell the food at a low price, and build the walls precisely though because we don't want Goldenfields to grow any more; it would consume the land around and destroy that which we try to protect. It feeds cities already as far north as Yartar, as far as West as Neverwinter and as far South as Baldur's Gate and Elturel. We do this to remind them how things can be, in the hope that they might wish to replicate this themselves. We're not in the business of changing how cities run - we don't want to be in charge of them. Could this be replicated elsewhere? Yes, it could. Could it also be perverted, or subverted to exploit? Yes, as can most things. But if *you* are willing to lead a revolution in growing and eating and living in harmony where you are, we would happily share that. Sevembra runs a seed bank of *very* high quality seeds for high quality plants and we're very happy to teach any farmer how to use them to grow how we do here; we give them as many seeds as they wish for free. Yet, so far, nobody's taken up on this offer; not *en masse*. Farmers take seeds sometimes, but they come back the next year to get more for planting - which means they're not doing it right. But the problem is, we're not evangelists. We never will be, we don't want to tell people how they should live or what they should do. We want them to come to us. They need to want to change. They need to want this. And if they want it, we have the means to make it happen."

**Riglan has much to consider.**

As dinner is winding up for us, the day shift of guards arrive, sitting interspersed amongst us, reporting that the front gates are shut (they shut at sundown). We thank people and head back towards the longhouse. Along the way, Teresiel asks if we have a moment... Inviting all of us. So we agree. She leads us towards a grove, hum-ing and ha-ing, looking at stars, then decides that it's a good place.

She recites a litany of what our group has done. Not so much the rescue, but the fact that we have quelled potential cataclysm. We have avoided mass destruction through our actions in Tyar Besil. "It's clear from our conversations tonight that very few will ever know how close this world came to annihilation. It is always the case that those who do heroic deeds do so in the shadows - in darkness - but I prefer that, of course, to the situation we often see in halls and cities where is nefarious deeds done in the shadows. Far better for it to be acts of kindness and valour and right. Riglan... You have served and furthered the purpose of the Emerald Enclave, to retain the balance to restore life to this world; to enrich, to nourish and above all to protect all the plants, beasts, insects, animals and other living things, who are unable to protect themselves and, in this instance, were unaware that they even needed protection. I am very very proud to be the one to do this."

She takes Riglan's pin and produces another one. This isn't light green; it is bright yellow. She pins it in place. **"May all who walk with us in the various circles of the enclave recognise you, Riglan, as a Summer Strider."** "To your friends - your *family* - who bear witness; thank you to all of you as well. And lastly - the abbot has asked me to do this too." She opens her hand. "Well, she's the one who makes the rules now, as he holds the seeds. I understand your kind live almost as long now as mine." She places one of the seeds in his palm. "Are you sure?!" he asks. "It is a new tradition!" "What do I do with it?" "The seed will tell you. Listen to it. Listen to the world, to nature. You will know. Trust your wisdom. Trust the voice within." He thanks her - though is unsure what to say. "Sometimes you never know if you're doing the right thing - you just have to keep going, knowing that you're doing the best that you can. There will be some, of course, that say that good and evil are very clearly defined and you know if you're doing good. I don't quite subscribe to that. I think we can only do the best that we can. We strive for balance. We strive to protect and nurture life. For some that's not quite good enough, but for me, that's the meaning of life. I believe it is for you too." Riglan says, "It's certainly the best I've been able to work out so far, though travelling with these amazing people here has certainly broadened my perspective."

We are invited to hold hands, the four of us, dog to one side. Teresiel reaches and gives us a big hug! "May the Everstar shine on you always."

She touches a tree, steps into it and vanishes.

Nethza says, "Well... Um... What... What did she just give you?". Riglan at first turns to leave, but then pauses. He turns back to the group. Tears are almost at his eyes, just held at bay. His ears are half-up, asymmetric. His face is, if anything, full of hope and, perhaps, pride.

"Funny kind of family we've become, isn't it? Don't know what's going to happen next, but I wouldn't change anything for the world... A world that is now ours to help and nurture, or to plunder and abuse; societies in which we can play a part, or which we can ignore. These are now the choices that we are able to make, without prejudice or influence of others - just the influence of conscience. And *this* -" (the seed) "- is quite some conscience." And as we walk back towards the longhouse, he explains his understanding, limited though it is, of the seed and its importance. He'll have to spend time at Shadowtop to find out more.

### (800 XP) - **THIS COMPLETES THE CAMPAIGN**. We reach level 12 - just 10 points into it.

Back at the house, he says to Maireagh, "I look forward to setting down some roots at Ol - *new* Owlbear Tower. Is it OK if we spend a few days here first, so I can learn some stuff? We could learn together maybe? And I suppose there's the crown... And history at Tyar Besil... What do you all want to do?" There's brief confusion as people thought he meant they go separate ways, but it was more about when we did things.

Maireagh says she'll hang out in the longhouse and grounds while Riglan learns farming to do some crafting. She "borrows" Temo's crossbow. Temo decides he'll spend time with Riglan during the day, since if he might have any future Qelline it won't hurt to learn a bit about farming. He'll read in the evenings - Riglan supposes he will to. But we're worried about Nethza - she's happy to explore and wander around, talking to different people and learning about their cultures.

We head to bed.

(End of note - Part 25 next)
