# Riglan: Part 11

(Level 6 this morning, if not sooner - forgot to write it down at the time).

## DAY 65

We are at the druid (or not so druid) camp around the Scarlet Moon Keep wicker giant fire (really, a cover for an under-magical-control fire elemental).

Varigo and Fariya go to fetch water so they can make tea. The fire still burns in the keep, though it's settled a little and emits no smoke at the moment. It's 8am or so. We eat a little and after about half an hour the other two are not back, so we go and check on them, towards the spring (Riglan survival:14+8). Takes about ten minutes. The two of them are at the edge of the spring leaning over something, and noting us arrive they call for us to help - "healing's not working!" - one of the sprites is unconscious, badly injured, next to the pool. Riglan, medicine 14+5 - physiology is very different, regular healing won't work. Nature, 14+2; this sprite is Aphid; the body is in some form of shock, unconscious, not breathing, but almost in a kind of statis that it put itself into. Badly injured (scorched, burned etc.); we're told as we check that they found the sprite near the water when looking for berries by the stream, stuck in a bush as if it'd fallen/crashed in there, in a sort of stuck pose as if reaching out of the bush. We go check. Riglan perception 12+8; broken twigs and smashed branches, showing a kind of flight path crash, was probably trying to crawl out towards the spring.

We try holding him and dipping him in the spring water. As we do this, we see that the water - Riglan Arcana, 18-1 - seems to be having some effect, magical; Detect Magic; a faint magical signature of abjuration where it makes contact, but he's encased in a shell of necromantic magic. Riglan tries Dispel Magic on the shell, which disintegrates and the water now reaches Aphid and seems to seep into his wounds, awakening the spirit within but he's quite injured. Fariya casts a Cure Wounds now, and this time it helps. Aphid wakes - "We're under attack! I must get back to the camp! We need to bring water!" - insists on going to his camp. We send Varigo and Fariya back to theirs, to bring everyone; we run to Aphid's camp, with water, but the place is all burned up. "I'm too late!" - he sits on the ground, defeated. Gariena and Flix are missing, but Flix's bow is on the ground, burned.

Riglan turns to Aphid. "There'll be time for self-pity later! Tell us everything that happened. Quickly!"

Aphld was on watch. 4 people approached from another camp, then rushed them, threw Aphid into the camp fire and grabbed Gariena from her tent. Aphid was yelling to wake Flix, but they were using fire magic and everything was burning - even Gariena. Aphid flew for water as fast as he could, but got hit by some kind of spell and he crashed, his wings burned. He tried to crawl to the water.

Riglan asks if he can remember anything about the 4. Not much; two were in scarlet moon robes, the other two he didn't see properly. They didn't come from the road; they came from up the hill. "I don't know why Gariena wants to camp so far away from anyone else... Nobody could hear me shouting for help..."

Riglan tells Aphid to come with us, and we run back to the other camp. The four are packing up. He asks Temo if Temo can make it to the other druids, and as Temo is looking for a route, he notices two from the bear camp approaching and Riglan sees four more from above.

**Riglan says, "That's going to have to wait. *****Arm yourselves*****."**

The two that have approached start asking why we're packing up. An argument starts - they insist nobody could've attacked. The four from the keep turn up; one priest, 3 that look different; armed differently; breastplates and shields, adorned with swirling patterns. Bronze colour. Helmets, they wear goggles, which is odd. Two hold heavy crossbows, the other holds shields and longsword, and is quickly joined by a fourth armoured person with the same weapons. So one priest, 2 fake druids, 2 crossbows, 2 swords.

Riglan asks the two fake druids to check with their bear, call it over. They refuse of course. Arguments persist. The priest steps in. "Silence! There's no basis for your accusation!". Starts having a go at us for being disruptive. Riglan just lays it all on the table, finishing with, "You may as well drop the act. You're not fooling anyone." - he's just had it with these people. Time to fight. Temo yells, as his sling alerts him.

(Roll for initiative).

Battle starts; one of the bad guys calls for assistance of course; so we know more will be arriving soon. Priest is almost taken down but not quite & throws a fireball. Battle gets intense; 2nd priest, another fireball. Healing spells from our druid friends in between keeping people up but only just. 3rd would do it too, but Nethza manages to get in a counterspell by that point. We start taking things down, as the 3 bugbears run in from another camp, along with two more fighters from down the keep path. The lycanthropes run in too, but Riglan sees from their confused reaction that in fact, they are druids not cultists; in our various turns, party members try to use brief snatches of dialogue to tell them what's really going on. We don't know for sure if they believe or understand us. Riglan has brought up four giant goats (!) via Conjure Beasts, not quite what he had in mind but they're hardy at least, especially once the bear totem is called. Later, he briefly transforms into an axe beak and clacks 3 times, hoping that the other three druid friends we know - if still alive - will hear and come. Later, the 2nd priest is still up, and casts another fireball - yikes. Netzha blows her last spell slot on another counterspell.

Aphid does good work - he's lucky with his little crossbow, taking down one warrior and no less than two bugbears with his poison darts - in all cases, the enemies can't withstand the poison and in all cases, fall asleep.

The goats end up encircling the two arriving new warriors and the remaining mage, but can't take them down. The lycanthropes join our cause, telling us to run to the keep to rescue our friend. In practice, battles are swift; we do eventually defeat the foes (including a couple of Wargs that the bugbears bring) and gather our forces in a short rest since we figure that if people were taken in the depths of night, they're either dead already or still alive for a reason.

Nethza at one point uses a new ability to bargain with one of the Eternal Flame Guardians, offering it redemption instead of hell; it agrees and comes back as a spectre, fighting for us.

Not everyone can come to the keep with us. Some will guard the camp, some must go to report / warn others, and some will come on the assault. It takes a while to convince Aphid to not come; it's just too dangerous, he went down twice in fireballs before he even had a chance to fire.

The other three druids - two halflings and goliath - did hear the axe beak but were in their own battle. They prevailed and freed the chained bear. Others found two false druids and they're bound and gagged, and have to stay that way as we don't know what kind of magic they have. So apart from those, we have all friends at the camp, keeping out of sight of the castle; and foes in the castle, hopefully with some live captives. Some of our new friends, while we rest, go to their own encampments hoping to avoid suspicion - we don't know if the castle saw all this, or if we can present the illusion of continuity on the hill slopes below, for now. We even use the robes of the captive scarlet moon false druids to make it look as if they are still present.

During the rest, Riglan apologises to the lycanthropes for his assumptions of their evil deeds. It transpires that they were sent by druids on suspicion of what was happening; they're not druids themselves. They never expected to be there that long and were very worried by the full moon, so headed to the valley forest just as they knew that if they got a kill, it'd get "out of their system" and, though terrible, was far less bad than rampaging at the camp or - worse - at the fire dance that previous evening. They don't want to engage in the keep battle for fear of wounding, but not killing people in there, which would lead to their curse being spread.

Our short rest completes. It's time to assault the keep.

Riglan calls four creatures - black bears. Temo gets a dire wolf from his bag of tricks. We have the creatures run in front, but try to keep as quiet as we can as we run up to the entrance (very good stealth all round). We aren't noticed by many. Temo kicks things off; the dire wolf runs in and starts an attack, Temo firing his crossbow as that happens (but missing). It's on!

We quickly surround two priests that were tending to the wicker giant; we get some hits in, but then one of the priests in apparent desperation throws a globe of magic at the giant which cracks, splinters, comes apart and emerges as a **fire elemental** - right in our midst. The battle continues. Maireagh bears the brunt of the elemental sweeping across her and is on fire, but has resistance; a series of magic uses that give it attack disadvantage luckily prevent further hits. In addition, some high damage rolls and unlikely crits - including one of the bears on an attack of opportunity and Nethza's last attack - bring it down before it gets a chance to try again (on Nethza's poetic crit). Amongst other messy things are two hellhounds breathing lots of fire, and all told by the time them, three guards, the two priests and elemental are all down, only one bear is still standing; the dire wolf managed to stay up due to surprise misses a few times by guards, but is low on HP; most of our spells are blown, but party health is mostly decent.

The spectre Nethza works with has floated up scaffolding around the tower and indicates the presence of a door. Despite our condition, the job is nowhere near done - we've found no captives and we know one very, very powerful druid - at least - remains somewhere in (or most likely, knowing our luck, *under*) the tower.

We head up on the scaffolding. The dire wolf can't fit - the scaffolding creaks badly even under just the weight of the bear - so it patrols outside. Temo is a bit disappointed at that so tries to pull another animal, and gets a weasel. Hmm - pretty tiny! He brings it along for friendship mostly. (We're down to only the one bear, no dire wolf, most spells blown - this is going to tricky).

Inside Maireagh, leading, sees stone stairs leading up the northern wall, but also a big hole in the floor - 20ft drop. The room is warmly lit. In front of us are two of the guards (eternal flame guardians) and some strange looking kind of elemental; looks almost like a very well built dwarf, with metallic looking skin that looks glowing red/white hot. Where there would be a beard and hair there is flame. It holds a flaming war hammer and a heavy metal shield.

Maireagh shouts, "We've got company", which is probably not too surprising.

Temo runs in, weasel on shoulder; sends weasel round the room to distract the combatants and sneaks in a bolt at the Azer (dwarf) (which hits, but who knows how much this weird creature can take). It deals force damage as a magical weapon, with bits of molten armour metal splashing off - and where the metal lands, it burns. The Azer hits the weasel, which is instantly destroyed, and moves to confront Temo. Eeek. Maireagh runs across the other side of the hole and tries to pull down the Azer with Thorn Whip, keeping just out of reach of the guards, but it doesn't hit. Battle continues. As it progresses, we hear crackling noises from down in the hole, but don't yet see anything emerge.

By the time Nethza gets into the room, an eldritch blast is enough to take out the Azer. The bear is about the only one who was hurt by it, just because its attacks hit. The Azer disintegrates into embers, leaving the two guardians (for now). They're tough and we are taking a while to take them down.

Flying out of the hole, suddenly, two small fire elementals appear. We haven't seen these before and don't know what they can do. Molten rock seems to drip off them. They join the fray but are quite easy to take down tho they explode when they do so; and soon the floor is clear, but then we hear sounds from upstairs and see people starting to appear on the stairs. The sound of someone casting something. Two more of the annoying exploding fire things appear. We take them down but it's hurting us a lot each time we kill them and it's stopping us paying attention to the stairs and people coming down there.

Temo sees one on the floor 20ft below. In a blaze of glory, the bear jumps down and tries to grapple (athl check to land 10+5, athl check for grapple nat 1 vs fire thing's nat 20, **FFS**). DM permits a second attack (bear has multiattack) but only gets 6 damage from that. We've had some decent hit rolls in this new combat, but the damage rolls have been awful, including two crits in the battle both of which scored damage somewhat below the max *non* crit score. Frustrating. The fire creature fights back, hits and the bear catches fire. The spectre flies down into the hole and finishes off the fire creature, but its detonation leaves the bear with only 1hp. Riglan drops concentration on his spell to let it go back to the fey. Later he uses his last L2 to summon a flying creature he can send up to the floor with instructions to attack "the mage" and indeed it does figure that out and, unseen by us, hits and fly-by escapes with decent damage.

Of the two that were on the stairs, one is thorn whipped down the hole, already dead from the whip damage after prior attacks. Some scorching rays attack Nethza from an unseen mage up the stairs (well, she sees him, we don't). More attacks; Temo takes out the last guard, and now we're trying to get the priest. The dog and Maireagh get up there and (along with the spectre) get in some good hits, though they're badly hurt by a scorching ray. Riglan runs and misty steps up into a corner on the upper floor and gives Frostbite a try, but the (turns out to be a) priest saves; his bird gets a bit though, then Nethza finishes the job and the priest falls.

No time for relief - someone else emerges from *another* floor that seems to be above us. Looks at Nethza and casts some kind of nasty necrotic spell (Blight) that causes a lot of damage for her, too (8d8; she saves but still takes half, 20 damage). Keeps the hex on concentration check. Down to 14hp only!

The fight goes on and, through some lucky hits, we take this mage down - and only then realise it was the druid, Elizar. We run up stairs. This is his private chambers. One more step of stairs up to an attack; we go up. Riglan running in the lead. Dark room; flips open his light on his shoulder. Perception 15+8. Four giant bats are flying around. A body lies on the ground - Gariena. Riglan shouts in bat, "Keep clear or we'll kill you". The bats make sounds that they make when starving. Riglan goes down, and drags up Elizars body. "Have that." (Riglan is not very happy right now.)

Riglan shouts down, all his spells tapped, "Anyone have any healing?!" and Maireagh comes up quickly. She casts Cure Wounds on Gariena, who regains consciousness. She's badly beaten and lost a lot of blood (equiv. 3 levels exhaustion). Riglan carries her down from the attic, onto the bed on the floor below. "Where's Flix?" she asks, and Riglan has seen no sign of it but sends the bird looking. Temo cannot find Flix (body or otherwise) in the attic (but only rolled 4+9 investigation), so comes down and searches the living quarters (investigation 14+9). On the desk, a cage with a velvet cloth over it - inside, Flix is unconscious.

We open the cage and get Flix out; we bring him to Gariena and ask; healing should work. Maireagh manages to do a bit of healing, but he too is badly injured - it'll take a while. Meanwhile, Temo continues:

* Bookshelf with many books.
* There's a very ornate pipe.
* A small bag of 6 fire opals, est 50gp each.
* A box of coins coming to about 25 platinum combined value.
* A scroll of Flame Arrows (L3, Riglan could cast that on a quiver of up to 12 arrows, Temo could use those in his crossbow and then he'd need to load it, and it'd do piercing damage instead of force, but it'd still be magical and do 1d6 fire damage too).
* Desk with letters and a journal, communiques between Elizar and someone called Vanifer.
* Elizar has a metal emblem on his person, and the letters we find refer to this, so it turns out it gives him control of a gifted Azer (the "fire dwarf" creature).
* Azer was an envoy who could pass secret messages between Elizar and whoever Vanifer is. Azer was to be treated with respect and fed magic.
* There are other letters which seem to be impatient - talk about things taking too long, should be sped up, should they send more creatures up to "**help clear the rubble of the tunnel**" - their forces are trapped on the other side of it, with all other paths out barred by enemies. The other cults, we assume. They grow weaker while they wait, apparently - increase the sacrifices, feed magic, more recruits, more souls etc. - greedy bunch!
* One letter instructs Elizar to kill those "incompetent guards" who "lost the orb". They were meant to take it to Triboar and "set it off; how could the orb have been stolen? Trace it down. I want it back! They're quite hard to make."
* Elizar's journal notes how he'd sent people far and wide searching for the orb, rumours of it being at Yartar and being sold - which we overheard, in fact, while there.
* The orb is an unstable encased magic, a **devastation orb. Every passing day increases the risk of it detonating**.

Gariena pulls out a key and says we should go to her camp. We say she should come down, with Flix; Aphid will be waiting. So we head out, and find that the camp outside the keep is being packed up with remaining cultists defeated. Temo goes and cuddles his wolf. The two guards who were bound are now joined by three more, so we have 5 prisoners. Nethza thanks the spectre, which actually hangs around though, as it'll be released at the next sunrise to pass into its next realm.

The spectre shares info on what was going on, explaining what it knows. It was helping when we were reading the journal too; it realises we were lied to. With that in mind, we set someone to work showing our 5 prisoners that the journal contains lies. 2 believe it, 3 still think it's fabrication, deciding that it's probably the Crushing Wave - the water cult - that made all this up. Riglan figures via insight that the two who believed the journal now feel lost; they had a sense of purpose and now don't. The three moon druids say that they'll take the 3 prisoners with them to Womford to give to the authorities; Riglan says he'll the two to Summit Hall, where maybe they'll find purpose again.

We find Aphid, and we all get back to Gariena's camp. Aphid and Flix are very glad to be back together. Gariena sifts through the camp wreckage and finds a scorched wooden chest, unlocks it and pulls out 3 items:

* Potion of fire resistance
* Scroll of Lesser Restoration
* A relief carving made from ebony coloured wood of an owl's head

She says the carving, if shown to any animal or elf in the Kryptgarden Forest, will lead to safe passage and shelter there. This is the emblem of the guardians of that forest - of her circle. She can show us paths to the fey, too.

The various druids, mostly now packed up, all agree on something that will bind us together for this experience. **Varigo hands us a scroll of Sky Write**, with specific runes which we can use to contact each other in case we encounter more of these cultists. It can be used as a warning signal if nature is under threat - get things out, clear the region, whatever. It can be related further, like signal fires.

Despite the tragedy of everything that happened here, the near-catastrophe and deceit, something good was born of this; the unspoken bond between all of us who survived the ordeal, pulling together to find the truth. Riglan realises, at that moment, that it's the largest gathering of druids he's ever seen; Gariena points out that **all of us have inadvertently created a Druid Conclave**.

The goliath druid decides to adopt the bear.

We all prepare to leave in our various separate directions. Curiously, it's still only late morning, verging on midday.

Our party and the two ex-cult members head towards Summit Hall, intending to pick up our horses and try to get more information and perhaps assistance at The High Forest. We have a lot of clues and few answers, with what could be overwhelming force present in the underground city, coupled with an unknown force of presumed water cultists at Riverguard Keep. We reach the river in the mid-afternoon and elect to push on to summit hall. Riglan uses his ritual to get everyone across on foot, which takes about 20-30 minutes. Riglan gets a bit lost after that (survival 3+8) as we aren't on the path we were before, so we have a few false starts, but eventually find the road - though it's 5:30pm, with another two hours to get to Summit Hall - but we decide to still push on.

Con save throws all round. Riglan and Nethza and end up exhausted, though Temo and Maireagh are OK. (Makes sense; Riglan used every single spell slot and most of his class features - the most tapped out he's ever been).

We have to talk our way in with our two cultist extras. Temo does the talking. The knights offer to put them in with the recruits dormitory, but only after they agree to questioning in a Zone Of Truth.

We're told there's a bit of dinner left in the great hall, so we thank them profusely and set down our things in a room, clean up a bit, and come to the table. Riglan is unusually quiet and withdrawn. Maireagh says "WHY?" at him. He tries to explain that it's not a moral issue per se, but he's confused about how lately we seem to have killed more people that we saved and although he didn't know what to expect when wandering, it wasn't quite this. It is a relief at least to be back at the hall. Maireagh makes him a hot water bottle, which is pretty weird as it's not that cold but she doesn't know what else to do and he takes it in the spirit intended.

We finally head off to bed for much needed rest. Riglan wakes up a little early, too used to watches lately, and realises that the wolf and spectre are about to leave as glow on the horizon tells him that the sun is about to rise. Riglan watches as the spectre fades away, while scritching behind the dire wolf's ears as it suddenly blinks out of this realm. Riglan goes back to sleep.

## DAY 66

We wake up at Summit Hall, refreshed from a very much needed rest. When Riglan awakes he sees Nethza still sleeping, but Temo and Maireagh aren't there. He gently wakes Nethza and they head down to the great hall, where we find Temo & Maireagh having breakfast, along with many others. The usual sort of bustling morning that's becoming familiar.

We're offered the chance to stay and the library is tempting, but aware now of the Orb Of Destruction's daily increased instability we are more inclined to get to the High Forest to seek wisdom and advice. Names we mention to the knights at the hall are not familiar to them. So, we thank them once again for their hospitality, fetch the horses, say hello, much nuzzling and apples and by around 9am, we ride out for the High Forest - East, across the plain (Riglan: Survival 9+8). He knows from his map that there's a hill in the middle and we make a straight line, more or less, from the hall to the southern hill slops. It's just after 1pm arriving at the base of the hill.

We're finding the going quite easy, so we press on, basically dead East towards the distant trees. It has so far by no means fully flat or always dry, but still decent going (Riglan: Survival 10+8). As we continue, a dry, warmish wind picks up, blowing steadily from the south across the overall flatter land here. As we continue, though, grassland gives way to more scattered bushes and trees. By 5pm, we're tired, but close. Maybe 3-4 miles away. Riglan doesn't know what dangers lie there, but would feel far more safe in the woods than the open. We push on.

More con saves! Riglan is on foot, and only rolls 8+4 so gets a bit exhausted. The draft horse does well (nat 20!) and the mules with Temo and Nethza are fine too. The dog, well, that's magic/mechanical.

We enter the fringe of the forest. Riglan (wisdom save: only 4+9) realises this is by no means a normal forest, pretty much immediately. We cross what "feels" like a distinct boundary; Rigaln feels re-invigorated and an immediate sense of connection. He hasn't felt this for a long time - really, back with his tribe in the depths of the Lurkwood. It's about 6pm and sun is setting, so we try to set up camp just on the fringes. Riglan survival: 12+8. There's a small clearing by a stream, due to a fallen tree. A fire could be lit safely. There's also nearby a small cave on a bit of a rise where old roots create hollows, but no fires should be lit if we did that. We opt for the clearing, with room for two tents but we set up just one, with two bedrolls out in the open, to look at the stars.

The forest here is thriving, even on the fringes. It's full of life, but unfamiliar to Riglan all the same; flora and fauna are not the same as his own woods. He asks if it's OK if he goes for a look around and his party is fine with that. Temo can always sound the horn if Riglan is needed. Riglan wanders upstream, looking at the plants and sketching in his journal and (Perception: 10+8) he finds some healing herbs too. By the time he returns to camp, the sun is on the horizon and the sky is a rich orange to the west. The wind has picked up - we can hear it in the trees, but it's quite calm down where we are. The Lurkwood is more conifers and relatively sparse undergrowth often, but this is much more dense.

Riglan uncovers some hard cheese in the bag of holding which we'd almost forgotten, and we have that, some wild berries and dragon jerky. Maireagh melts some cheese as a dip but apparently it doesn't taste so good!

After food, Nethza suggests that Maireagh and Temo look at the ancient elemental cults book we found at the monastery - since we gave them, but then got them all back from the Feathergales after the battle. Investigation: Temo nat 2, Maireagh nat 1! Oh dear.  We decide to have some brandy, play some music to pass time and if not too tired, try again; else sleep. Riglan's pretty awful (performance with disadv for exhaustion 4-1) but Temo covers it (15+7). As we play, some forest creatures watch on - a judgey owl, some curious bunnies, a small family of raccoons and a fox. We give the owl and fox some dragon meat. We give the bunnies and racoons some apples. The horses get pears.

We head to bed - usual watch order.

Temo suddenly wakes up - his sling is warning him! He puts on his goggles. He's in the tent with Nethza, who is asleep; Maireagh is asleep outside too and must've not woken Nethza; the dog is awake but the fire is out and stares at something in the treeline; Riglan is on the sleeping mat outside. Temo: Perception 17+2. He sees a slim figure crouched on a branch amongst the trees, high enough that it's out of the dog's reach. Temo wakes Riglan - the sling is warning, but it's not going nuts, so something is off but he's not sure - and points out this individual. Riglan disadv 13, 15 + 8 perception; he can tell it's an elf.

In Elvish, Riglan calls out, "Good evening, I'm a druid of the Circle of the Shepherd. My name is Riglan. What's yours?"

The elf drops down and stands on the edge of the clearing. It's not pale skinned, but not a Drow either. Riglan can't tell colours in the dim moonlight. Has longish hair, a bow, plain but good looking leather armour, with a few leaf motifs. A short cloak, too.

"I am of the **Sylvanesti**. You have entered our woods. What are your intentions here, druid?"

Riglan manages to find his Emerald Enclave pin and shows it; says he's looking for them. Mentions Shadowtop Cathedral, but it's probably too far to go. Riglan's insight (nat 20 + 5) is that he's intruded into their territory but they mean no harm, at least, not right now. Riglan apologises if he's effectively trespassing and asks if it's OK to camp here tonight and pass through. The scout wanted to know our intentions to figure out if we should be granted safe passage, escorted somewhere, kicked out, or whatever.

After some conversation, he mentions that an elven city is a week away if we were to be granted audience there. Rangers might be close by, or we could get to a location 3 1/2 days trek to the north.

## DAY 67

Sylvanesti returns and offers right of passage as we confirm that we would like to get to Shadowtop Cathedral. He pulls out four large white flowers each on a creeper that he ties around our wrists. "If you are stopped by another, just show them this" - though they're sufficiently visible that hopefully these will be seen long before we're challenged by anyone.

"Leave the forest as you found it, unless you are giving something to it; and take from it only that which you need to live and no more" - Riglan, of course, agrees. Sylvanesti tells us the rough direction and indicates that we can always climb a tree to see the bearing North from the movement of the sun and position of the Star Mounts. We are also given a small bundle of biscuits. Bids us farewell and safe journey, and vanishes into the trees.

"We're on our own from here then" says Riglan; Riglan double-checks that this party is still on the board to seek the advice of druids. They feel like it's at least a return to our wandering and travels anyway, and seem happy. We make some tea, and **Riglan decides to make a (somewhat awkward) toast to the delegation - may they find peace in the afterlife, and meet us again one day in that plane**.

We head off. It's slow going and Riglan uses the opportunity to forage as he goes, but - though it kills him to leave them behind - he doesn't take any rare herbs for healing potions because that sounds like it'd break the agreement made with Sylvanesti. He can always ask permission from druids when closer to Shadowtop. Temo tries to play as we walk; it's not great but decent (Performance 8+7) and is a nice thing to have.

Riglan rolls survival (2+8)! So he's pretty distracted by all the new flora and fauna. At one point, even Temo realises we're taking a very sinusoidal route as Riglan wanders from left to right. After a while we have lunch, and Riglan climbs a tree to try and put the advice he got into action. Athletics 9+6. We're sticking relatively close to the forest's Western edge as we reason that the deeper interior will be much more dense, hard to navigate and potentially risky just from natural hazards. Besides, the horses can't really deal with anything more dense; there aren't any larger tracks or roads at all.

Onward. Riglan survival - 2 again, +8! - slow going still. We do eventually find a place to camp for the night. Riglan & Temo do some reading (though Temo can't really get into it). Maireagh tinkers and Nethza meditates.

Riglan climbs another tree, looks around and reconsiders his route. We can get to Shadowtop with the horses eventually, but it'll be slow without a guide and a good path. The high forest is denser with more undergrowth than he expected, his home forest being more of a conifer affair, so perhaps keeping to the fringes and even plains, except at night, to reach the river he sees on his map that cuts E-W and runs close to Shadowtop. We can forage in the forest but camp with fires safely just outside.

Watch is set. Everyone stays alert. On Riglan's watch (perception 17+8), last in the order, he can sense rustling and movement in the woods. He goes to investigate and finds a herd of giant elk, moving surprisingly quietly. Stalking behind is a pack of wolves, keeping distance. Riglan can hear other things, but they're too far off to see.

## DAY 68

More tea then off we go! We head East out of the forest, then skirt the boundaries on horseback, across the edges of the plains (Riglan: Survival 7+8). We even engage in a bit of galloping (Riglan running!). Riglan: Perception 15+8. High clouds roll in slowly, building over the forest (especially the Star Mounts and Lost Peaks) and blowing over the hills. Close to noon, a light drizzle falls. It's not enough to make the ground muddy and there's still the odd patch of sunlight. It's the later part of summer now, so temperature is OK but we're past the hottest.

To the left, Riglan notices **a plume of dark smoke** rising out from the across the plains, coming from behind some low ridge so we can't see the source; too big for a camp fire at least and unusually coloured; we see this and push for a ten minute gallop to the NW to investigate. The ground starts to look like pasture rather than "unused" or natural grassland. There are things that we recognise as ranch/farm markers here and there. We get close enough to see a collection of farm buildings close to each other, one building fully on fire. We rush on, intending to help.

Panicing livestock is in a fenced corral near a smoking barn. Part of the barn and part of the outbuildings have already burned down. One house is fully aflame. The animals are locked into the fenced area. They can't be left out as they'd just run away. Riglan tries to calm them down but they're running on instinct entirely. We shout to see if there's anyone around - anyone trapped. Nobody answers. Riglans the hawk and sends it into windows of the barn to look. The barn is not on fire; the smoke is coming from the house.

Riglan tries freezing spells and flame control but the fire is far too engaged. We try to break a window further from the worst of the fire, so the hawk can look in; but lots of smoke pours out from there. Perception, disadvantage - a 19 then 1, FML. Can't see anything. No way to tell if there's anyone inside and no way via magic or physical means to extinguish the fire.

Maireagh and Nethza run in anyway. They both take 2 levels of exhaustion and 14 points of fire damage, halved to 7, but do pull someone out. They sit down, coughing.

We can't stop the fire and it'll consume the barn, which would let the animals free if not hurt anyway; so Riglan opens the fence and lets them out. Not much choice.

Healing word (L1) from Riglan on the unconscious person - 10hp, focusing on visible injuries we can see the sustained - which look like battle wounds. He coughs a lot, understandably. It's a quite slender half elf. "Meghan, Meghan - my wife - please find her! They took her away, and the children. They've taken them!" - he seems frantic. "They must have taken the wagon as well. We have to follow them. We were attacked!" Riglan asks for a brief description of the wagon (basic 2 wheels) and they were charged at in the house by unknown assailants, they were he reckons the Ice Shield Orcs. Doesn't know direction.

Riglan explains to the hawk and sends it on a search pattern. We consider trying to recapture the farm animals into a rebuilt enclosure while we wait, but Temo (investigation 15+9) sees wagon tracks going Westward from the barn. We may as well give chase. We see that the guy we rescued has already started running that way. He's picked up a large shovel lying outside and runs off in that direction. We catch up with him, but given exhaustion, Nethza and Maireagh have to ride; the mules can carry them. The rest of us do the best we can and proceed at best possible speed to give chase.

As we go, we notice plenty of footprints alongside wagon tracks. After about 45 minutes, we're within sight of where the wagon is stopped. It's in the shade of some stunted trees near a seasonal - currently dry - stream bed. The wheels are sunken a bit into the sandy ground. There is activity around it, but we're still a long way away. Riglan hasn't seen the hawk back, so he jumps it to the fey, then back next to him, and sends it to fly to the camp. We continue going as it heads towards them, though of course it pulls away. About 500ft distance. For a while, Riglan can see through it.

Someone is cowering on the wagon clutching something - one or two children maybe - collapsed in front of the wagon are two other bodies, one orc kicking one of them and another four of them laughing and eating and drinking things from the wagon. 300ft. We accelerate to a full gallop, Riglan running - athletics, nat 1 + 6! - so he falls back a bit but we have the other guy on the ground and Temo on horseback, telling the other guy to hold back, he only has a shovel! - don't even know his name - we ask, it's **Selwyn Anderil**. We charge in to attack, weapons ready.

As we get close we dismount and run in.

Temo splits an attack of magic missile from his wand (2 charges) to hit the two orcs nearest the river. He dives behind a rock but doesn't have time to properly hide. Nethza - moving slowly from exhaustion, as will Maireagh - casts hex and throws Eldritch Blasts - one misses, one crits, throwing the Orc clean over the two bodies on the floor and landing dead down in the dry stream bed. One of the Orcs immediately charges at us, meeting our advance and attacks Nethza. It hits but it's more of a glancing blow. Another runs towards where Temo was badly hidden -  it's one he hit with the missiles earlier. It hits but Demo dodges the worst of the blow. A third runs forward and gives a battle cry (giving its allies advantages in attack), throwing a spear at the largest thing it can see - Riglan. It hits and does some strange extra damage; this seems to be some kind of war chief? Riglan hasn't seen an Orc like this before. Selwyn runs in, towards his wife.

Riglan conjures four animals to mark the four orcs. Large crocodiles appear! They materialise flanking the orcs engaged with our party and one in a defensive position to try and aid Selwyn by drawing fire from the orc that's near him. Maireagh moves to attack the strange orc captain and gets in a couple of decent hits thanks to crocodile flanking; the dog runs into the fray and attacks too, just scraping a hit against the boss too - though that strange orc doesn't look too flustered by the damage so far.

The crocodiles take their turn. Astonishingly, every single one get a bite in. The damage is typically minor, but every orc becomes grappled temporarily in the jaws of the beasts. Temo disengages and takes his shot, taking down the orc that attacked him. Nethza has similar good luck on the hexed orc she was fighting, then runs around to go for the boss, transferring the hex. Her position confers no advantage to her attack but she hits anyway, doing decent damage.

The war chief orc retaliates against his aggressors, but swings at the crocodile that flanks it - almost takes it down, but not quite. Meanwhile, Selwyn reaches the cart where the crocodile has grappled the orc. He hits it with his shovel (!) and takes it down!

Riglan gets a hit on the war chief with a thrown flame. Maireagh gets two hits (one crit) and the dog hits too. The crocodiles move to attack; the one that was badly hurt can't nom through the orc's armour but another one comes in and finishes the job. Orcs down!

We run to the kids. One is 5, one 7. Two unconscious, beaten farmhands - brothers, who work on the family farm - need healing. Riglan uses Goodberries from the staff, for them, the children and the wife (we don't have any area-effect healing spells). The farmhands were made to drag the cart and got this far before collapsing. The wagon is filled with things that were stolen. We offer - since we have two mules and a draft horse, and the wagon is undamaged - but the question is where to go; the farm is burned. We strip the bodies of anything that looks valuable as the family can sell it to start to rebuild their lives.

Apparently they knew raids were increasing, and had actually been packing in case of escape being needed - but never expected a middle-of-day attack. They knew the area was somewhat 'frontier' but never expected orcs to be so bold - moving from stealing animals to ransacking and kidnapping. They need somewhere to rest - they know of a friendly ranch (**Delmond's Ranch**), one of the last safe places they can think of; it's closest to the road through Jundar's Pass and close to Beliard - it should only take us about three hours. We can worry about their farm animals later.

Riglan thanks the crocodiles, who ask if they can hang around a while longer as the orcs are tasty... uuuh, OK! The hawk is still up, and Riglan asks it to fly guard for us as we head over to Delmond's Ranch. By about half way its time is up and Riglan thanks it before it returns to the fey.

Riglan broaches the difficult subject of how much a house costs to build, but they don't know; the community as a whole has been damaged. They say that **Kerbin Delmond**'s family has been here the longest of all; the last time the group of ranchers met, they'd all agreed to retreat and shelter at his barn if need be. It's the most defensible position.

As we travel, Riglan notices that the area doesn't quite look as expected. Fields, the odd corral, but more trees growing - fruit, olive, mixed up with various animals - and watchtowers here and there, overlooking fields. Some are burned, with some groves of trees looking scorched, but others stand. Some animals graze though, and here and there are lightly armoured farmers on horseback. As we get close they notice us and come to assist.

Near the ranch, we see a compound up on a bit of a hill. It looks old, made of stacked stones and old wooden beams in parts; a palisade is built along much of it that shows signs of reinforcement. Some low stone wall sections are scattered around, also with palisades. It's a big mixture of the solid and the makeshift. Within are four main buildings and many people gathered around. We realise that one of the four buildings is more of a gatehouse, but this compound is not a keep - the walls wouldn't keep out determined intruders. The gatehouse is maybe 20ft tall with some people watching on top. The palisades are barely 12ft typically above the ground, as low as 10ft in some places with the shorter stone walls only 5ft high.

There's a huge corral to the left just below and outside of the walls, that has animals in and animals are being brought in through the gates - we assume that it's an overnight thing for safety; guarded grazing during the day. One of the assisting ranchers is called **Fyndrick**. He gets angry when he hears our story. "This cannot stand! There needs to be a change. There needs to be retribution for this. You are the **sixth ranch burned in the past two weeks**! This is madness." - they want to find the "head" of the orc assembly and "cut it off", metaphorically.

We count roughly 20 people gathered within the compound walls once through the gatehouse. We've arrived from the East. Wives, children, farmers. We realise one of the 3 buildings (to the left, South) is a huge 2-2.5 storey barn, and that it's being used by people for refuge with animals displaced to the corral. The main farmhouse is to the right (North). A large well is in the middle. At the far edge, behind another short row of walls, is a stone building only 1 storey high but wide, with a large chimney that emits smoke, lots of heat; seems to be a forge. Weapons are being made.

We notice two more gates, but not proper gatehouses. They are closed off. Stone pillars each side.

The main farmhouse is a sort of T-shape and 2 storey high. The "foot"of the T extends beyond the palisades - a fourth way in or out, then. People run up and help the Anderils down from the cart. The two farmhand brothers meet family - their parents. They are the **Lavelle** brothers; **Ob** and **Fip**. Ironically they'd moved away from Waterdeep to get away from crazy goings on down there a few years ago.

As the wagon is being unhitched from the horses we ask Fyndrick where Kerbin might be. "Oh, you're looking for father" - we realise Kerbin must be quite a bit older, then, since Fyndrick looks to be in his 30s. He points and we see an older man in OKish shape, maybe late 50s, walking out from the main farmhouse with a slight limp, walking with a cane. He doesn't really look like a farmer.

We chat to him and try to find out more. Where the orcs are coming from, or whatever. He gives us basically no information. No idea where they might be from; they've struck everywhere. They do know the location of some of their "lodges". Iceshield orcs have lived in this area for a few hundred years, so this is more about not understanding why they've escalated. Riglan: Insight 17+5; he thinks the question is good, but they're just too distracted with trying to stay alive.

We try to make an offer of some kind of help; we can stick around for the night if we're welcome and help with watch; it's getting late. He runs off to help with others. He doesn't really steer us at all, so we have to just look around and figure out what to do. Kerbin is out of his depth apparently and hasn't slept in ages. He's also very worried but trying to not let it show.

We notice that the new arrivals are headed to the barn, so we assume this might be a kind of triage area, and find at least a dozen people here who are badly injured. Riglan realises he can use his unicorn spirit totem, then heal people within that and help everyone feel better. He uses that, then runs out to some makeshift tents near the well with other refugees, repeating the trick.

As the unicorn spirit fades, Riglan sees a halfling in a green cloth and leather outfit, the other is a female human with similar skin tone to Kerbin and Fyndrick - darker olive toned - a relation, we presume. They approach from different directions, the woman reaching us first. "Greetings. You are a healer?" Riglan explains he's a druid but can do some healing. "I am **Dreena**, Fyndrick's elder sister and 2nd born of Kerbin." She welcome us to the family home. She says her power wasn't enough to do what Riglan has done - and makes some signs in druidic which say "can we speak in private?". He signs back, "yes, but I trust my close friends with my life..." - she signs back to indicate that this is fine. She says the halfling will be there too - he's called **Flameran Verminbane**. Quite the name.

The six of us sneak out of a side gate, Dreena nodding to some guards as we go. People recently healed acknowledge and thank Riglan - "What you've done for them means more than I think you know. I've only been able to heal a couple of people a day, which is not enough!" We walk out and stand under a small set of three trees. "**Father refuses to evacuate**. He fears that doing so would leave all the other ranches stranded, without a place to go; but as more and more have fallen, my family is being torn. Fyndrick is a hothead and wants to take the fight to the orcs. We know of the location of a *few* of the lodges... I'm sure something must have happened. They've not behaved like this before. We've had an understanding for a long time; we accept losses of cattle to orc raids, but that's no different from bandits or wild animal attacks. But what they've done it the last few weeks is unprecedented, like the sweeping orc raids of old days. Kidnapping people to act as labour. I don't know what's set them off. My other brother openly agrees with father, but he also listens to his wife and she thinks we should gather the ranchers and get to Yartar. That would mean giving up their livelihoods and everything they've ever worked for and known. We're afraid that the orcs will strike here before long. You can see we're no fortress - we need help. Flameran here has been looking around..."

Flameran takes over the talking. "We might be able to repel a wave or two, but we'd never be able to withstand a siege. Between the lodges we know of, we must be facing down at least dozens of orcs." Riglan shares his knowledge of the unusual war chief orc and agrees that it's likely the lodge would be overwhelmed quickly. Dreena says that they keep proposing an idea that's gone down badly, but will be serving dinner from the main house for everyone and the two dwarves from the forge will be there. They don't like my idea..." - we ask what it is - "...Flameran knows some people in the High Forest. And I thought I could ask for some help from them. But nobody will lend us a horse." We say we have horses, but they would slow you down in the forest - "Flameran knows the paths", she counters. We're happy to lend them the horse - she wants just the draft horse, for her and Flameran to go as quickly as possible. So we agree, of course. She says she'll leave after dinner.

Riglan gives her a potion of healing as a spare - just in case.

We head back in, trying to reassure her that we can at least help out if there are any skirmishes. We also ask about evacuation; what route? We're told, West, out the gate there and just cross-country to get to the road, aiming for Beliard as the first port of call; then Westbridge; Triboar; Yartar. If it comes to it - we know the way.

Food happens. We run off our own rations; we don't want to draw on their heavily stretched resources. Conversation involves all sorts of different ideas and arguments amongst this group, but Dreena insists on at least *her *course of action; she rides out with Flameran after dinner. During dinner, though, we note who disagreed strongly with Dreena, the people who supported her, those who seemed very pro-offence, those who were into evacuation and those who were into entrenched defence. We hear a lot more about the details of evacuation from that. The dwarves, incidentally, are mostly on the defence camp. And, at least, their smelting work is useful for everyone - attack, defence or evacuation. Maireagh offers to help. Despite her exhaustion, she is of some assistance (nat 1 heh but +4 bless, and her proficiencies; gets her over 10, but Netzha insists she go to bed after a while).

Temo and Riglan help with watch, with the dog. They've an inside perimeter patrol, a corral patrol, a gatehouse patrol; one station outside the Western gate; one stationed in the house front room, watching East; two patrolling the outer perimeter. Riglan notes a potential blind spot on the steep hillside East, but also there's only one person in any given location. We decide to bolster the external patrol by going in the opposite direction and keeping us at "third points" on the clock to minimise overlap.

Thinking orcs might wait until later at night to attack, we take Temo on 2nd, Riglan on 3rd watch. The dog stays with Maireagh this time. Temo pulls from his bag of tricks a regular small badger - good for darkvision and smell. Riglan calls for his watch a fey Owl. Riglan on watch has a bright idea - he talks to any awake animals in the corral and asks them to keep alert and make a ruckus if they hear or see anything. He checks in with them on each circuit around the perimeter.

Near the end of the watch, Riglan spots a glint of metal on the horizon cresting over a hill, running towards the farm. Get as close as need to see it, then fly back; it tells me there's a stocky but quite heavily armoured human running back. It's about 6am. Riglan warns the other people on watch that he's leaving his post and runs out to meet them.

He's waving as Riglan gets close. He's wearing full plate! No wonder he's out of breath. Heavy backpack, a shield and sword. He says "help me, I need to get to the Delmond Ranch to warn everyone!" - Riglan says he'll turn into a horse; does, we ride back at gallop. It's about 6:15am. We get back to he ranch and Riglan turns back into himself.

**Perd** is woken - the eldest son of Kerbin, older than Fendrick or Dreena. Perd and his wife, with kids, really run the range. He's hastily thrown on an improperly tied-on breastplate and carries his sword. The arrived knight - paladin **Erned Stoutblade** - reaches from his plate mail and pulls out an emblem of a flaming sun with a fist. "Sir, I have come to warn you - I have been travelling down from Yartar. I represent the Order Of The Gauntlet. I'm here to help you defend - I lost the other member of my party on the way; we were coming to shore up defences here, having heard about the increasing raids, but we didn't know their tactics were changing entirely and walked into an ambush. This is particularly alarming as it's not what we were told they'd likely do. On my way to try and still get here, I stumbled across a scouting party and followed them back to their main camp - I have to warn you - **there is a group of I estimate about 50 orcs only two hours away**. You do not have time to evacuate. If you leave now they'll cut you down on the road. **We have to prepare for battle**. I will help however I can - you have my sword and my shield."

Riglan hastily enquires about his skills; minor healing, but much more useful with his sword and shield. But basically, low level paladin. He thinks the Orcs are likely to approach from the North West given their camp location.

## DAY 69

Riglan wakes the others and we eat hastily. We spend an hour or so trying to figure out what to do (macguffin for short rest). Maireagh heads to the forge to try and bolster weapons. Riglan and Temo help out as best we can with barricading gates, bolstering the palisades and so-on, as well as making sure people who can fight have their armour on right and all that kind of stuff.

We try to build a protected area around the well, to try and stop stray arrows etc., where people are close to water in case of flaming arrows or fireballs etc with nobody in the wooden buildings - too vulnerable, just a firetrap. We get women and children to get as many buckets as we can, along with wet rags etc. to do their best to combat fires as they arise. The animals are bought in from the corral and into the barn - it's one less target to worry about the orcs trying to hit as a distraction. People are kept with them to keep them calm and some archers go into the rafters almost as snipers. Riglan speaks to some of the cattle to warn them of scary things about to happen but trust the people, stick together and try and keep calm.

Fighters without range are kept inside the walls near the gates, to be able to flow out and attack when they get close enough; no point being outside and getting hit by arrows when out of range of the orcs.

Everyone's had food and we're still getting ready, then a watcher on the barn room calls out - one of the kids has gone up - we see orcs emerging from a hill to the NW, out of a lightly wooded area. They're not a formal regiment, just a large number. Several packs of wargs too. They have carts with them - we presume to ransack and possbily kidnap. They don't advance all the way; they stop about 600ft away and start unloading carts. They're fanning out a little. The knight confirms that this is the group he saw. They spread out even more along the ridge, perhaps to intimidate; Riglan uses the spyglass and sees that they've unloaded many bundles of javelins and some big rocks. There are clay jars; Riglan isn't sure what those are and hazards a guess they might be to do with fire. Larger clay vessels are being unloaded from some carts too, along with lots of waterskins and food, so perhaps they're setting up for siege.

The barn watcher then draws our attention to the North East. A surprise second group, again with wargs, similar size.

Understandably people in the compound are panicking somewhat.

Temo tries to calm people, but it's not doing much good. The paladin calls everyone's attention, while stood next to the well. He gives a rousing speech, relaying a story of small numbers of brave souls willing to stand up to tyrants and prevailing. Old enemies become temporary allies. He basically talks in abstract terms about the Cult Of The Dragon war. He talks about not giving up hope by looking at numbers of possible bleak futures; just fight minute to minute, hour to hour.

As the orcs fan out, we see that they're starting to set up small groups that basically surround the entire ranch. We do the best we can to make sure that we have all angles covered and fighters inside at all gates, ready to come out as quickly as they can. There are few places where archers can cover things, as the walls can't really be stood atop. A couple on the gatehouse roof for east, two in the barn loft for south. We find two more to go to the house for the north defence. We think we'll head out towards the west beyond the wall with the forge, if the orcs start to approach and we need to fight. Most people inside are melee warriors only and we need line-of-sight anyway; Temo is powerful but short range, too. In the meantime Riglan can keep an eye on things from the house or loft of the barn.

**It's now about 8:30am**. Watchers pace nervously, eyes on the distant orc groups. The compound mood is tense. People inside can't really see much. Then we hear snarling and what sounds like war drums beating West, then the Eastern side joins in. We hear shouts in presumed-orcish. People are getting frightened and Riglan tries to be encouraging. From the Southern side of the compound there's yelling and we hear whistling of arrows flying; they thud against the barn wall. There are shouts inside of "fire, fire!" - Riglan instructs them to get the bucket chain going. The arrows have pitch which is burning as the arrows stick.

There is a brief moment of calm. Then Riglan hears distant sounds of wagons and movement, but can't see (perception 3+2); Temo climbs atop the barn but can't see much other than the 5 groups of orcs now surrounding the ranch. He comes down and grabs the spyglass (adv. perception 18+2). They seem to be just moving supplies around; wargs and orcs are moving between camps. It looks like they're moving to merge the two groups of ~50 and distribute people and supplies across the five main groupings. He also sees an ogre or two - one to the north and one to the west. We keep an eye on that one to the west and wonder if we might get the chance to get the one North, too, in due course.

Temo notices a fair few large, heavy crossbow archers taking aim. He shouts "Crossbow bolts incoming!" and scrambles down to the ground, handing the spyglass back to Riglan. Moments later, big thick crossbow bolts, much larger than normal, slam into the west palisade, splintering the wood and crashing right through leaving 1ft ish tears. Maireagh runs up and casts mending on the areas. We warn people to make sure they're against something robust (!) if near the walls, waiting for melee.

Riglan (perception 4+8) hears what sounds like movement outside again, this time getting closer. He looks through the gate. One warg and five orcs are running up the hill. He tells his party. They're about 250ft out and closing rapidly. The four of us run outside and prepare to fight. Temo throws a firebolt as they get closer - they're very fast, and charging - but misses as the orc sees it coming and dodges. It gets within 30ft and throws a javelin which hits Temo; Temo tries to (uncanny) dodge but still takes some damage.

Another runs up and throws a javelin at Riglan, which also hits. They're good with those things! A third tries its luck, but misses the dog. The warg is running close behind. A fourth; javelin at the dog, hits, fair damage. Maireagh runs out in retaliation but only gets in one hit, albeit a good one; dog runs up, misses.

Riglan notes that the other orcs are doing nothing; perhaps they're testing strength. He shouts, "I think this is just a test! Don't do anything fancy!" and uses an Arctic Blast cantrip against two of the orcs. Both hit. One was already injured by Maireagh and falls. The other takes some damage and is pushed backwards against the advancing Warg. Nethza sees the most distant, fifth orc; hexes it and throws eldritch blasts - one crit - this kills it outright. Riglan chuckles and says, "Hey, not too flash, remember...". Temo aims at one closest and despite the dog and Maireagh giving it some inadvertent cover, sneakily takes it down with a single hit. The first orc (2nd combat round) runs up to attack Nethza but misses; the Warg goes for Maireagh and knocks her to the ground, pinning her down and roaring over her. At this, the other of the two orcs comes to attack Maireagh but hits the armour and does no harm. Maireagh gets up and shrugs off the warg's in-effect grapple; she gets one attack in and hits the *orc* behind who just attacked; the dog does too, killing the warg.

Riglan throws fire at the warg and hits squarely (8+8! Max damage on Produce Flame). Nethza finishes off the orc that's in front of her, then tries for the warg and does a bit more damage - the warg's almost down; Temo finishes it off. We hastily drag the orc bodies inside - free weapons! - but leave the heavy warg. The spoils are distributed. Temo goes back up with the spyglass - just in time to see the heavy crossbows being loaded and pointed at him. He comes back down quickly! They don't fire - they were just letting him know that he had been seen.

Across the courtyard, another small group of orcs test defences on that side; as soon as one of them is killed the others retreat. Perhaps they're assessing our distance vs melee range; they also test our various group defence compass points over the next hour. A few more flaming arrows are sent over too, but we put those out quickly again.

Around 10am, the barn scouts shout - Riglan climbs into the loft and looks; he sees three camps have started to move forward slowly, 500ft to around 400ft and stop. War drums restart. If they're trying to figure out a charge range for optimum attack, there's not much we can do. The camp gets worried again, after some lifted spirits from the initial attacks being repelled. Riglan asks the Paladin to boost morale - the orc bodies inside may only be a few, but they're a dead few and we're all still alive.

Some people are raring for a fight. Findrick is particularly itchy-footed, but knows he can't rush them.

Excitement comes from the house - the orcs are on the move. Riglan sees arrows fly out from the distant shortbows. Findrick opens the gate, but three groups of orcs are converging on the range, pushing ahead. Riglan warns Findrick to take care of arrows. Riglan jumps down from the loft, landing heavily, and our party is running for the gate, Riglan some distance behind. We stick to the West. Out the gate again; 8 orcs and 2 wargs. These seem more regimented and one looks like that higher commander orc style from before. They march, rather than running.

Temo sends magic missiles at the commander, while Nethza focuses on one of the wargs having seen how one pinned Maireagh, hitting with Eldritch Blast. She takes it down. The orc commander now acts, calling for a charge; he runs up and throws a spear, hitting Nethza. He draws his greataxe, calling for a charge again but before they can react, Maireagh runs up and attacks - first is a crit; second hits too. Both do a lot of damage. Dog flanks and attacks, hitting too for modest damage.

Thanks to Riglan rolling initiative Nat 1 :-/ *all other combatants* now move - shit. They cluster arround Maireagh and the dog, piling on; it's horrible to see. The warg charges right up into Riglan's face, adjacent to Temo too. Maireagh and the dog get attacked though quite a few orc hits glance off her armour (but one crits). The dog takes one hit but again there are some misses. Riglan tackles the warg while Temo tries again for the chief and hits but doesn't take him down.

The chief (3 attacks!) hits the dog; hits again despite Temo using Silvery Barbs; the dog goes down and Maireagh takes another bad hit. She takes him down in retaliation, but there are still lots of orcs around; Temo is attacked and hit; Nethza is attacked by several with the dog now out of action; a few misses there; Maireagh hit a few times. She's nearly down. The warg attacks Riglan and hits; he's knocked prone but gets back up and retaliates with a good hit. He brings up the spirit totem, belatedly.

Temo disengages from the orc nearby and takes out one that was threatening Nethza and Maireagh both. Nethza drops her hex and pulls up some strange spell that swirls around her (Spirit Shroud) and attacks the nearest orc, felling it in a single blow. She binds the orc to her, turning it into a spectre - no bargaining. Maireagh fells another, before one swipes wildly at Nethza but misses, Temo's "friend" comes back and crits :-/ (uncanny dodge 18 -> 9) then two go for Maireagh but neither get past the armour. Riglan has another bite off the warg, but he dodges. In return, Riglan crit fails on his attack :-/

Temo disengages once again and takes down another orc that's on Maireagh. Now the spectre acts, hitting an orc despite the disadvantage of being out in the bright morning daylight. Actually takes it down. Nethza tries to hit the two remaining orcs with Eldrich Blast, but this time both miss (after a run of prior good luck). Maireagh crits against her last assailant and takes it down; runs back towards the one Temo's been engaged with and attacks that, hitting it too but it's not quite down. It turns and attacks back, hitting very badly - she's only got 5 hp left, all temp gone.

Warg just misses Riglan who hits back, and actually kills it. Temo finishes off the orc nearby and all fall. We suddenly hear frantic horns from the orc camps and all attacking parties suddenly retreat! Back to the 400ft mark.

Maireagh calls for help with the dog and we rush back inside. Riglan hands her the potion of greater healing, but only helps for 14; other injured people are coming inside. Two were killed on the battlefield, though their bodies are recovered; but we can't pull them back. The retreat did sound in the nick of time.

We try and take a rest - we don't know when the orcs will next move. So, we try. The camp has 9 injured; they can't really fight on. So we're down 11, leaving us with only 5 defenders. The paladin tries to heal a few, which helps a little. Consoles them and so-on, trying to shore up the defences. He's rallied them a little. Gives them some spirit.

We rest in the barn. We see that there are still orcs coming in now and then, but the defenders can handle it - there's no big assault, just harrying. We hear that it sounds like maybe 30 orcs came in before. They committed forces to try and overrun, but held back in just in case. There are maybe 50 or so still out there.

We manage to get a rest, at the cost of not being able to assist outside or observe. Some healing, and Temo pulls a giant rat (!) and panther from his back of tricks. It reaches roughly midday. The main house nervously bring out food and we share a lot of our remaining ale to give everyone who can drink, a chance to do so. Flaming arrows continue but the fire crew are doing a good job. At one point, they send in wargs to try and spook the animals. They have the wargs crash through the fence of the corral, and our archers fire, the animals are spooked; they're beaten away, but the corral fence has a missing section. The dwarven forge workers repair weapons. Riglan tries to keep the animals calm. We drag in orcs where we can, to get more weapons - the enemy does the same sometimes. Riglan also uses the unicorn totem again, to help with the 11 wounded and Maireagh.

Another hour passes, Riglan managing to get another use of this totem back through the rest.

Suddenly, we're called over to look out - another force of orcs has arrived and is bolstering the ranks. There's a different looking orc having some kind of argument. Riglan had called a hawk earlier, before resting, and he gets it to look at the orcs from within his telepathy range. They look a little different overall; their leader and the old force's leader seem to be arguing. These are different groups - perhaps the same clan, but there are still slight differences all over. The third group even has a banner made of hide - blue and white paintings, shaped roughly like a shield with a jagged shard inside, kind of a snowy peak. Iceshield.

The leader of the new arrivals is riding a warg. Another orc is doing the same too and an ogre is dragging things along with them. They turn and head straight for the eastern gate, picking up speed. Riglan suggests via the paladin that we turn our entire defence around - east swaps to west and vice versa, so we'll look at the east. From the gatehouse, we see they're coming from now around 300ft away. The ogre, the two leader types, one of whom has a very odd longsword drawn and pointed towards the gate, its eyes almost seem to have flame in them. The other wears ringmail, a shield and a very decorative spear with long feathers and pennants, seems almost ceremonial; face is fully painted in runes. Armour is covered in patterns and designs in red, almost like - or actually?! - dried up blood. Behind them, the ogre drags a sack of large rocks and carries their banner. Surrounding on either side are four wargs and maybe 35 orcs. They're picking up speed and charging.

From the gatehouse, Temo says, "well, it's now or never". He pulls out his fireball scroll and tries to read it - success, arcana 17+3. He could aim at the throngs flanking the high level guys and hit maybe 2 wargs and 16 orcs, or go for the big guys - the two leaders, their wargs, the ogre and a couple of flanking orcs. The leaders save, one warg too, but another warg and the two orcs fall; the ogre fails too, 32 damage. 5 wargs, two leaders, 1 ogre and 32 orcs charging. It slows them a little; now they're around 100ft away, but split a little - 16 orcs either side and the leader group follow to the right. Perhaps Temo should've hit the muggles to thin the numbers, but too late now.

Riglan calls Call Lighting, aiming for the grunts. Four take half damage (11), five full (they're close packed - 3x3 square, centred lightning strike, 9 affected) (22) which kills them. 5 wargs, 2 leaders, 1 ogre and 27 orcs charging. Temo tries a charge of magic missile on the flame-eyed guy to see if there's any shield, and there isn't, so the damage isn't high but it's useful to see that.

Maireagh has run down behind the gate while Temo and Riglan stay on the gatehouse, and she's getting ready for melee. Nethza sees us attacking the right hand group and covers the *left* hand slope in darkness. The entire battlefield for now has no sunlight due to Riglan's storm, so the spectre - should it come to it - has no disadvantage. So the two of us are concentrating on spells now. The spectre tries to assess the field, but doesn't want to just immediately die so does not attack yet.

Initiative: Riglan only 2(+0), Temo 15+5 (Maireagh quite high and Nethza not far behind).

The bad guys advance. Temo sends 3 magic missiles at the ogre using his wand (12 damage) and asks his panther to protect Maireagh (held action; move when she moves). The swordsman Orc gets close and runs within 30ft; throws a javelin at Riglan, but misses. The phalanx of orcs gets close and start throwing javelins. Four hit (one crit) and Riglan is quite badly injured by them but his spell concentration just held. Maireagh runs out into the midst and casts Web on the group immediately outside. The dog attacks and hits (6 damage). Panther moves in behind. Nethza spies some injured-by-lighting orcs lagging behind a bit and throws eldritch blasts at the two closest, but both unfortunately miss.

The group of (retcon) 8 orcs (the 16 were split into two - just for battle mechanics, each group of 8 on common initiative) in the darkness patch cast by Nethza try to escape; two manage it; the spectre gets in an opportunity attack on the leader (13 damage). It still makes it to the others and throws a javelin at Nethza; the other sees the spectre's actions and swings at it, scoring a critical hit :-/ but only for 9 damage; the second group of orcs run in, through the darkness with some escaping it and reaching the fort. Another hit on the spectre; also two javelins hit Nethza. She manages to hold darkness concentration too.

(Riglan's inner monologue: ***Sorry everyone. I guess we should have left the day before, and never got involved. No surviving this with just us few***).

People in the keep are basically freaking out, scared silly by the number of orcs they can see and the sound of battle.

3 more javelins come at Riglan. One hits. He loses concentration on the storm, so it wasn't any use for more than one attack. Rats.

The ogre advances and throws a rock in our direction (DC 18!) which amazingly Riglan (nat 20+1) and Temo (16+8) dex save and avoid. The structure is hit for 10 damage; the gatehouse is splintered and we realise that we shouldn't stay up here. The spectre attacks the orc that most recently hit it; misses. Tries to flee (3 opportunity attacks). All hit. The spectre vanishes.

One of the two boss orcs casts a spell which manifests a spiritual weapon next to Riglan. It attacks but misses. Riglan has a go himself, re-casting storm :-/ and killing the orcs that he hit last time (damage 23 - 9+8+6, good roll, failed saves all round) and even hitting the sword boss for 23. He clambers down the tower to get behind the dog, next to Temo's panther. After thinking for a moment, he brings up the bear totem too, even though he hasn't called any creatures yet.

Temo looks down at Riglan and shouts, "Look after them for me..." - and takes aim at the Ogre. He does get the sneak attack in, but only does 15 damage (1+2+2+4, +6). Amazingly, though, the ogre falls! ...as does the tower. Dex save only 4+8 (sigh, DC13). He falls backwards to the ground but Riglan's body gets in the way (>10ft, takes 1d6 -> 6 full damage, is prone). After bouncing off Riglan, Riglan looks at him, and says, "....You're just being melodramatic!"

The sword orc moves in and barks some order in Common - "I command you to destroy them. Now!" - 2 orcs in front of the gate attack as reactions (the dog helping Maireagh and in the end, both missing) and a third throws a javelin but misses too. Phew. The sword orc now throws two javelins - the only person high enough and out of the way to see is Nethza, but since she's just outside 30ft range thanks to elevation, is missed twice. The sword orc is annoyed. Yay.

The phalanx of 5 orcs left in Maireagh's web. Four are entagled (restrained) but the one in front of the dog manages to get out of the way of the bigger strands. The one in front of Maireagh tries to break free and fails (!). Two others fails too, though one succeeds. The one in front of the dog attacks but just misses. Maireagh retaliates, attacking the restrained orc in front. She hits twice and takes it down. Its body remains dangling in the web! The dog attacks its own aggressor and hits, but only does a little damage.

Nethza is still holding the darkness spell so throws a couple of Eldritch Blasts, with one hitting for modest (6) damage. She's frustrated as she's good in melee with a small number of powerful opponents, but here it's death of 1000 cuts and she can't do much against large numbers of attackers (none of us have much to help with that - Riglan's got the best chance with some area spells, but he's not very high level yet for that).

A few more orcs emerge from the dark area. Javelins fly out. Nethza takes 14 damage but holds onto her spell. The sword orc moves its spiritual weapon to attack Nethza since that's all it can really see; but it misses. It moves forward and casts Bless on the orcs in the web.

Riglan moves to try and get a look at the newly arrived orcs through the gate and brings down lightning, but only manages to get a hit of 13 on a group of 6, one of whom was injured already and does get taken down, and only 1 saved so at least that's something. Tries to self-heal but only brings up 8 (1+2, +5). Temo gets up, can't see much except the orc in front of the dog and manages to take that down with an arrow (and sneak attack) despite half cover afforded inadvertently by the dog between him and it; he dashes up and climbs next to Nethza. Now the orcs have two things to aim at up here!

Mr Swordy slices away a couple of chunks of web, getting close to the dog but can't do much else.

The three remaining now-blessed, in-web orcs try and break free and, amazingly, all fail (the web is strong; DC16). They're still restrained. Maireagh's up. She pulls aside the dead orc in front of the dog that's not so web-entangled (athl check 19+whatever), using one of her attack actions basically, then moves forward into the fray, next to the sword boss; but attacks and kills in a single blow one of the restrained, injured orcs. The dog moves in but can't reach anything, so prepares to dodge if attack itself; the panther fills in behind, keeping close to Maireagh in absence of other command.

Nethza considers eldritch blast again, then thinks 'fuck it' and misty steps into the middle of the fray. "I'm going in! If I..." - and pop! Misty steps. Riglan sees her reappear where he last called down lightning, next to a dead orc. She starts attacking and immediately an orc falls, but she has enemies all around - lots and lots of them... with more emerging from the darkness area, running to surround her. They start to attack; one crits and Temo saves with Silvery Barbs. Gives advantage to Nethza. Three others hit, 27 total damage. Ouch. Amazingly, she holds darkness concentration each attack.

The spiritual weapon tries to attack Temo, but misses again. It's having a bad day. The spear/mage orc now starts to chop into the web too. Riglan climbs up a ladder a bit near the tower Temo and Nethza are on to get a look; brings down lightning to try and thin the orcs behind her, though she's in the middle so he can only hit five. He takes down all five though, in part due to previous injuries, which is a great outcome. He casts a healing spell for Nethza too (2+2, +5).

Two wargs - we'd almost forgotten them - make it out of the darkness. One tries to attack Nethza and hits (11 damage), but the other can't reach. On the other side of the gate, the wargs that have been against the wall start to also attack and move through the web.

Temo takes aim at the spellcaster orc and just hits (24 damage). Once again this means he can't command his panther, but surprisingly he gets the spellcaster right in one eye and its bless spell collapses. The sword boss orc has no time to worry about that as he's staring down Maireagh. Unfortunately he gets back his chance to Command; but first, attacks Maireagh, missing twice (her AC is high). It Commands nearby orcs to do the same, and the two the web restrained orcs try but miss; a third nearby orc that's attacking Nethza does hit, but with minimal damage (1+3).

Once again the two restrained orcs try to get free of the web. This time, one makes it. Maireagh attacks now, this time going for the sword boss, but misses twice. The dog chews through the web holding up the restrained dead orc and moves into that space.

Nethza's surrounded and injured; she has to risk hitting the dog nearby and teleports with ThunderWave, just back inside the gate. Riglan's confused as he's holding his storm and hears this thunderous boom, thinking, "Wait, I didn't do that...?!. From inside she can just about see the mage/javelin orc through the gate, web and various combatants and puts her Hex Blade curse on him. She manages to take down four orcs and slightly injures a warg (16-or-8 damage, DC 15 con. saves, some prior injuries for saving orcs causing them to fall anyway). She drops Darkness and we see just two orcs left where it had been; they run up and attack the dog, with only one of the getting a hit.

The spiritual weapon spear finally gets a hit; it just gets to Temo (17 vs 17), but damage could be worse. Still staring at Temo, he shouts, "Jump!" - Temo (wis save, 19!-1) says, "What, jump? Are you mad?!"

Riglan uses the ladder again to look at the side where the spell caster is, unhappy with its treatment of Temo... Lightning comes down. Outstanding damage roll - 24! (9+8+7). One previously injured warg goes down, another is very badly injured; the sword orc fails his save and dies! The mage orc succeeds but dies anyway, having been injured so badly by Temo. Riglan can scarcely believe his luck. He heals Nethza a bit more too (4+1, +5). That's about the 6th round of combat, and we're still going but it's finally looking more hopeful.

One warg attacks the dog and hits. It moves to make space for the other; the dog misses its opportunity attack but the moving-in warg also misses on the dog.

One of the wargs on the other side (the first group that came in) move through the web, threatening Maireagh. Temo aims and takes it down. He can't command the panther, but it's surrounded by orcs and goes for the one that's still stuck in the web. It gets in a bite, but the damage is poor (1+2). That orc tries to break free but can't still! The one next to it hits the panther (for 13, which leaves it with 13 + 11 temp minus 13 -> 11 overall). Maireagh now goes for the stuck-in-web orc too, killing it. Another body stuck in the web. Amazingly, she's held the web spell this whole time, having avoided damage entirely so far. She moves out of the way, pushing past the wargs, to let Netzha out of the gate.

Nethza moves forward and attacks another orc, taking that one down. Of the original group that had moved on the non-darkness side, only one warg is left. The remaining orcs are from the darkness side. One attacks the dog and misses; the other attacks the panther and hits (for 8, 3hp left).

Riglan calls lightning once again, going for two wargs and one orc on the darkness side. He's getting tired and only gets 7 (3+3+1) tho all of the creatures fail their dex saves; one warg actually goes down. He activates his staff, just in case! Better late than never.

One warg tries to attack the dog but can't get a hit. The other on Maireagh's side jumps onto its dead counterpart but can't hit Maireagh; Temo in retaliation aims and fires, and injures it but can't quite take it down (dodgy damage roll of 2+2+2+5, +6). Maireagh finally drops web since it's really just a hindrance and attacks the same warg herself; one miss, one hit - which takes it down. She runs around to engage the orcs that still threaten the dog and flank it; the dog attacks the orc with advantage and hits, taking it down.

Nethza runs out and throws eldritch blasts at the remaining injured warg. Both hit. It's not quite enough - just clinging on to life. The orc next to it attacks Maireagh, hitting for 9 (but this means Maireagh is still holding 2 of her temp hp). Riglan runs out of the gate and has one more try with lightning on the one last orc and warg; 3+3+4 damage, warg down, orc fails, org down.

***Extraordinarily, we have prevailed*** - though we don't know what's going on elsewhere in the compound or how many other battles may yet await us today.

Riglan and Maireagh bring in the sword & mage orc bodies; Nethza brings in the banner that the ogre had; Temo scavenges every weapon he can find. We pull it all into the compound. Maireagh mends the dog, then does what she can to shore up the wall where the ogre's rock had hit. At least the gate can be shut and there are no holes in the walls. Temo investigates the two orc bodies to make sure there are no remaining magical items or weapons on their person. On the mage - we figure, perhaps, actually an or priest:

* 7 full value moonstones - 350gp
* 1 potion of healing
* 1 sending stone, but not the other one

On the warrior:

* Hellfire longsword

Riglan works to get the two bodies up onto the forge roof so the other orcs can see them. We make sure we wave the banner so they see that too, but then lay it somewhere inside the compound rather than doing anything specifically provocative or enraging like burning it, however tempting that might be; we don't want to provoke an immediate attack. We liked the remaining orc band's original few-at-a-time tactics! After a while, we pull the bodies down and pull them outside Western gate a distance so the orcs can collect them if they want. The paladin elects to bring the banner while we do this, and throws it to the ground; he yells out to tell them that the champion is defeated and they should leave. "Go home to your lodges, and harass us no more!".

Nethza asks if Riglan would consider swapping my ring of protection for her ring of spell refuelling. He has to give it some thought. He agrees to give it a try and see how it goes.

Riglan asks Maireagh how the sending stone works; she tells him to hold it (he'll feel a connection) or nothing (the pair is damaged or it has been used today). Riglan tests it for a connection and *does* feel one. "We have attacked compound, but heavy resistance and many losses. What are your instructions?" - he knows he's speaking in common but tries it anyway. A language he doesn't recognise says 10 words, in what he assumes is orcish; then it says, "We will come for you just as you came for us. Vengeance will be ours." Not an orc's voice and we don't recognise it.

Temo with Riglan in tow goes to speak to the less angry of the Delmond brothers (Perd). He's checking on people and trying to figure out an escape plan; beginning to think that staying was a mistake. We tell him about the message and ask if there's anything he might understand from it. He stops and thinks for a while. "I don't understand... We've never attacked the orcs before. We've always done as we thought we were told to." He does suggest that it's not them who did something, but the attacks had been going for a while and they just happen to be the last ones standing. His father is nearby, and is listening in; "We're not the only ones left standing, actually... The Nettlebees are not here. We don't know if they're fine, or not. We've not heard from them."

Perd explains that the Nettlebees are a long-standing halfling family of sheep herders, living to the North-West of the compound. A bit more remote, and don't always see eye to eye with everyone on policy. They're situated outside of the agreed original settlement area, quite close to the barrows and mounds of the Uthgard barbarian tribe that used to clash with the orcs but are long gone. One is called Wigan and they describe him as shrewd. Closest to the road too, so closer to markets (but that's part of what bothered everyone else; too close to the ancient burial areas).

So Riglan writes a note: "There has been too much death. We wish to talk, perhaps a truce. We will meet between our two camps. What say you?" and ties it to the giant rat, which Temo sends out towards the orc camp in the North West.

While this is going on, Maireagh has constructed - not too well, she's not a carpenter! - a makeshift watch tower platform on the forge size. There are still places to stand on the East despite the fallen gatehouse but we've not had anything on the left. It's not too strong - probably Temo thing. Once it's up, he goes up with the spyglass to see if he can spot his rat, but (perception 9+2) can't really find it. It comes back of its own accord. It's not carrying a note, but it's also not injured.

Time passes. Mid afternoon passes to evening. Camp fires are lit. One of the torches starts to move forward, 3 orcs; one on a warg, two on foot. The stop 250ft away - a little closer to their side. All four of us decide to go, but Riglan doesn't want it to look like an overwhelming force response; Maireagh and the dog stay behind - she might be needed in battle there anyway. It could be a ruse. The other three head out to meet them. Temo asks his panther and it lets him ride it.

Riglan: Perception 17+8. An older, battle-worn looking captain on the warg; much older. Scarred, part of its ear missing. Probably past its prime physically, but lots of experience. To his left, an orc shaman; to the right, a bodyguard with a greataxe. The shaman hangs back.

We approach without visible weapons drawn. Temo pulls his Comprehend Languages spell, which makes them very wary but when he casts it and there's no effect - with Riglan trying to show that it's a speak/hear thing.

The leader speaks in Orcish (Temo can translate for us now). "We here as you suggest. No more trickery." - the Shaman says, "Do not waste our time, we have arrived for parley. We are watching you should you use any more magic." Temo explains and the Shaman translates accurately. Temo says, "Yes. Trust."

Riglan tries to explain that we're confused about who attacked, but understand that someone perhaps did. The shaman translates; the commander responds, "The clash is undisputed. Our clan and other clans have all been attacked. We know ranchers are responsible. In the North, the attacks have happened now for many weeks. We come to rout them out; stop these attacks, claim back our land. It has gone too far. The ranchers must leave. No more trust. No more truce. No more understanding."

Riglan asks if the orcs would let the people left alive leave, if they go directly West to the road? "We will let women and children go, but we will find those responsible. You have killed many of ours. We have previously offered this passage and it was rejected. Retaliation in response. No more peace. We have been reasonable. Only one solution now. All ranchers must leave; the ones attacked found, given to us for justice."

Riglan asks, "How long can you give us, to find those responsible?" They say that they cannot speak for all tribes; more will come. We have bested two clans, apparently, but not theirs and more are not yet here. They, at least, promise not to attack tonight - but they'll stay.

Nethza asks for more about the attacks - to aid in our investigation. Burning, says the chief! "Our tombs and burial mounds have been desecrated and burned" - but they're to the North East, not the North West. "Desecrated, treasure stolen, ancient heroic Chieftan tombs raided and burned. This is deliberately to incite the wrath of the [various orc gods named here!] and their ancestors." With that, they pull back to their camp; we do too.

We note that their camps have encircled the ranch compound, except towards the South where the barn and paddocks are. We relay the information; of course, everyone there denies everything. Most of their ranches are to the East and South. We ask the Delmonds if they can gather a "town hall" style meeting of everyone so we can all gather as a group.

Nethza and Maireagh take up positions and two others insist that they stay on watch. The rest of us gather. It takes about an hour to get this all sorted; it's sunset - around 7pm. Food is provided as one of the enticements to try and get everyone together.

Temo lays it on the line, as gently as he can. There's immediate clamour. Calls for attack to the orcs. Why should we leave, etc... Temo suggests that if they rebuild, perhaps they should rebuild elsewhere; but only about 2 families support the idea and maybe 9 families simply don't think they could ever do it, for whatever reason. Nobody's admitting to anything, of course. Temo tries to pull conversation back to the issue of the burned tombs; perhaps another family joins the supporting group, but 7 are still focused on all the bad outcomes.

A few people leave; we try various things and it just won't work. We try to argue that we could let some of the women and children leave; what we need is evidence, to point the orcs in the right direction. Inevitably, now, accusations break out. The paladin steps in and Temo tries to convince them (but only persuasion 5+10). Riglan (perception 19+8) hears someone asking if we mean the fires she saw? Temo manages to get people to quieten down a bit (8+10). Riglan specifically asks about evidence; did anyone see fires to the north a few weeks ago? Some people says yes, but say there are often fires. Riglan points out the region and that it's more likely to be black, dark smoke; not lighter wood smoke. The woman Riglan overheard explains more about fires in the North East from their ranch, which is one of the few North of the Delmond compound. She was calling in sheep and saw a thick plume of smoke and fire in that direction. 
It was coming from near the Joran's Ranch!" - they get defensive. One of their kids pipes up - "I did see a fire; but it was North West of us"; an older woman says, "It's the fire witch! The curse of the fire witch! Those Uthgard barbarian ghosts". This idea gathers pace; elemental fire coven or something.

This doesn't explain the non-orc voice on the sending stones. We ask about that. The paladin says that orcs in organised tribes tend towards evil, so could be under the influence of any powerful evil entity. Agents of chaos. But that doesn't mean chaotic necessarily.

We haven't got much else we can do, so have to hope we can figure out some last ditch thing in the morning. So we try to rest and see what the morning brings. We'll try to get up early and have to hope no other tribes arrive overnight.

Usual watch order - Maireagh, Nethza, Temo, Riglan. Maireagh and Nethza are very tired, Maireagh almost falling asleep on watch. Nethza swaps at around 11pm; does a short watch and hands to Temo at 1am.

**At about 3am, he senses something - can't see it but the sling is low-level warning him. He wakes Riglan and we warn other guards to keep their eyes peeled**. Riglan can't see anything either. Temo tries to go up to look but is in magical darkness - he gets back down (perception, disadv. 20, 19 + 2). He runs in a straight line with his back to the ladder. He shouts loudly to raise the alarm; emerges out of the darkness, near the well. That whole half of the courtyard is shrouded.

Riglan hears a crackling sound; fire. He shouts, "they're burning the compound under the darkness!" - Riglan asks if either of them have a dispel or counterspell for darkness. We can't do anything. So we can't see half the compound, it's on fire, and people are waiting to attack right behind it. People are waking up and a bucket chain forms to try and put out fires inside the barn.

Riglan sends a fey bat; about 6 orcs and two presumed-wargs (hard to tell via bat) clustered near the wall of the barn with what seems to be a fire lit next to the barn. Riglan senses that the wolf is on one guard, 5 are standing inactive and one is moving about. Perhaps it's not an orc? Blindsight? It sees the bat, so yes on blindsight. Riglan temporarily dismisses the bat. Nethza gets her armour of agathys on.

Riglan risks throwing lightning down into the darkness - 50:50 chance of hitting the barn, but maybe he can hit the aggressors. (D10 <=5 hits barn & causes fire; roll is 8). Nethza has run outside of the compound. Temo heads up onto the forge roof on the edge of the da(athl. 19-1) to give her cover; Maireagh follows. The two outside get to the edge of the darkness. Riglan's lighting struck, and he doesn't know if it hit anyone (max damage from it was 16, so middle-ground). Initiative rolled; Riglan 10, Temo 13+5.

Temo (wearing his darkness goggles) shouts to Riglan, "I can't see if the storm worked - I think we need animals on this one?" and fires wildly into the dark patch. Amazingly he hits (1d6 + 6, happily rolls max, for 12 damage to - whatever he hit...). For a moment, Temo sees the darkness fade and snap back. "I think I hit the caster, but they just about kept the darkness".

Nethza casts Spirit Shroud and runs into the darkness, swinging wildly. One attack actually hits. She the runs back out, avoiding opportunity attacks and yells, "I'm out!". Riglan's encouraged to try again with lightning; he's run outside so aims a short distance inside where Nethza and Maireagh are. He only gets 9 max possible damage out of the strike, and hears cries that indicate he did hit *something*. A warg jumps out of the darkness and leaps at Nethza. Misses (rolled a 1!). The second emerges too; misses Maireagh. Maireagh attacks it in return. It turns out it was singed from the lightning strike and her first hit takes it down. She moves to attack the other one, hitting that too but not too much damage. The dog stands guard at the edge of the darkness.

Riglan sees Maireagh fall backwards as something attacks her; the dog too. Darts. 10 damage. Temo can see the remaining warg so aims; he fells it. Nethza tries running in again. Hits something both times! The darkness now collapses (random rolls on who Nethza hit; we got lucky on hitting the caster & they did a bad con save).

Close to Nethza and Maireagh we see there's one higher level orc holding two jagged-looking scimitars. Four others are still up. The sixth has fallen. Nethza pulls away from one she's in melee with to focus on the caster, and the lower level adjacent orc hits on an opportunity attack but due to Nethza's armour takes damage itself; this kills it. Riglan runs up and puts on the fire with Druidcraft as it was just starting to take on the barn wall; he activates his staff as he's unavoidably had to get into close range with the orcs to do so. Maireagh runs into the fray and in two attacks takes down two orcs. She gets the dog to try and attack the caster, but it misses.

In retaliation, the caster disengages and moves around to attack Maireagh with the two scimitars. He misses with the first and would hit with the second but Temo uses Silvery Barbs to prevent its attack from landing. The last regular orc runs at Riglan; the dog gets an opportunity attack but misses. It attacks Riglan (14) and misses somehow.

Temo gets a magic missile charge to hit the mage, to its surprise. Temo then tries to do a fancy acrobatic roll, lands on his feet and runs after the caster. Nethza likewise pursues, asking Maireagh to look after the orc that's attacking Riglan. She hits twice and takes it down. Riglan brings down lightning just behind the orc in front of him and it dodges, but still takes 10 (half 8+9+3). Maireagh runs in and tries to thorn-whip the org away, but misses. The dog runs in and gets a hit; this takes the orc down.

This is clearly a different clan. Well, the other chief did try to warn us! We grab all the weapons we can. Temo investigates the caster - actually, an assassin. He finds a bag of darts as well as the two scimitars, plus a few bone symbols, stained with blood. We grab what we can. Maireagh spells a moment mending the barn wall while we wait to protect her; we all head back inside.

We can't join watch - we sleep.
 
