# Riglan: Part 25
## DAY 114-116 (Goldenfields ctd.)

Some level 12 tweaks include ability scores for Temo and a change of his frost ray cantrip to Create Bonfire - winter is on the way! - along with Nature-related skill proficiency for Riglan, Nethza swapping Thunderstep for Scrying and Maireagh became a Shield Master.

For three days, Riglan learns about farming, Temo by his side. Maireagh tinkers happily and Nethza expands her cultural horizons by meeting many people around Goldenfields - she spends a fair amount of time helping to fix the walls, her flight ability helping a lot.

In the first evening, Temo and Riglan read. But on the second day, Temo has a conversation with a druid and realises he could combine inks and gems to copy a scroll into his spellbook as a ritual. It's **Unseen Servant**, which he thinks might be useful "around the house" sometimes. Riglan finally finishes his history book and has a night to catch up writing notes from what he's learned from the druids.

Maireagh has a suggestion for Temo on the 3rd night. "How do you feel about carrying actual crossbow bolts in a bolt case?" - she has a way of making his crossbow enchantment permanent. It means he'd not need to attune, but would need to carry physical ammunition - still having magical effects, but also able to use it in poison, or flaming arrows and so-on. He agrees - there is much shuffling of bag contents; he doesn't need his heavy lantern now he has his goggles for example - to make the pack weight work even with crossbow bolts present.

That night we realise that we're getting itchy feet! It's nice here but there are many things we could be doing or people we could be seeing. We let the druids know we might be leaving. That evening, as the sun sets, we're surprised to be asked by Maireagh to follow her. She finds a clearing on a raised lump of land free of trees, finding a spot with the sun setting behind, mountains in the distance, perhaps the actual tallest summit of the original four hills on which Goldenfields was built. She captures an image of the four us and the dog - a third picture for her collection.

## DAY 117

Maireagh in the morning thinks that Temo's servant spell might have its uses while we're on our less dangerous travels and takes the same spell, so they take it in turns to conjure help.

There is talk of where to go. Lots of options. As we discuss it, Sevembra arrives; the druids have prepared us various wrapped-in-leaves breakfast bundles as a goodbye after the time spent together. She gives **Riglan a bundle of different kinds of seeds wrapped in wax paper**; they're from all the plants he's met here, in case he ever plants his own grove of food plants and trees. He thanks her sincerely.

We're packed and walking the mile-long track towards the gates, still debating our route. Then Temo quietly clears his throat and just almost whispers, sounding very uncertain, "...Waterdeep?" and this stops the party in its tracks. "What?!" - he explains that he knows it's not somewhere Riglan will be comfortable, but if he's going to have any idea of how to protect and nurture, he needs to see something like this. We have valuable items to sell that even the Pearl Handled Pipe seems ill-equipped for and Desenya told us to visit. He sort of continues to rattle off various reasons quickly, making it up as he goes, until Maireagh interrupts - pulling out a little picture - "...there's also one other reason!" - it's Danain. "Do you think he made it? Maybe we could check in?" and Nethza says, "well, yes, it would be nice to finally meet him properly."

Riglan is sort of staring off into the distance a bit and fiddling with his pin. He's a bit choked up, sort of conflicted - he wants to know what happened but what if it's not good? But there are too many questions and it's been too long. We agree. The only remaining question, then, is method. He asks - "slow route, taking in the sights; or fast route?" - then we realise we don't really know how far and Riglan, as we reach that courtyard by the main gate, finds a space near the statue where he can roll out his bigger map and we estimate the travel. We do still have a boat, after all.

While they're looking at the map, Riglan suddenly runs off to the open "shop", to give Sevembra one of their found Moonstones as a thank-you gift. They seem most appropriate for druids as just objects of beauty and remembrance, rather than objects of value. When he gets back, he finds excitement - if we sail during the night, using watch periods to keep moving, it's about 50 miles we think to a big bridge and then not far on foot - we could make it in a day. Temo realises his Invisible Servant could help and Maireagh agrees, glad that she took the spell overnight.

Temo looks for a cart to get us to the docks (investigation, dirty 20). He doesn't find the same people as before but there are plenty of other options and we hire a cart this time, piling into the back as a group, for 5sp again. We get to see the exchanges of food and money - the 'external economy'. The druids don't follow down to the docks; we realise that each cart of food leaves Goldenfields for a nominal sum to cover shipping and cart maintenance/wages, but Goldenfields itself takes little extra. Riglan thinks that maybe another reason this hasn't been replicated elsewhere might be this economic issue - unless run by clergy or druids, it'd be for profit and *maybe* that would make it too expensive. Goldenfields scale - some 30 square miles if not more - helps too; food enough for 100,000 is estimated.

We reach our boat, thank the cart driver, give the tarp back to the boathouse owner and get settled in.

So, we sail through the day and night, aided by Temo's unseen servant and Maireagh's equivalent, some strange contraption that attaches to the tiller to keep the boat on course...

## DAY 118 (Waterdeep)

...and by morning, after a thankfully uneventful and non-threatening trip on an increasingly wide and busy - even at night - river, we start to notice a rather unpleasant smell! There are distant low hills near the coast - but as we get closer, we realise it's huge piles of rubbish, clouds of circles circling above. Riglan doesn't quite understand it either, and Temo has to explain but even he's shocked by the scale of this and realises he's never really thought much about how so much waste is hidden away in other cities. We were going to pull up at the bridge we saw on the map, but this isn't hills and fields, it's a big coastal dump full of carts pulling garbage.

Temo suggests we could try the sea. Riglan is like, "what, in this tiny boat, but that's HUGE" and is actually truly scared in a different way from how it felt in battle; he has no control over this. But his friends are here and the garbage dump is not somewhere to leave or sell a boat - it is smelly. So, Temo at the help, we press on downriver. Nethza is confused - isn't Waterdeep an amazing city, "Jewel of the Sword Coast!" - Temo defends it, but we realise that they are not without their problems, evidently.

We get to the sea and Riglan goes very quiet with very big wide eyes, ears down. After a while he asks the others, "...do you just think this is normal, I mean, have you seen this before?!" - Nethza points out that we're really just along the shore so we can push along. It's quite bouncy. Riglan says that it's not so much fear anymore, he's getting used to it and we're close to land, the waves are freaky, but more the sheer scale of it. It's kind of magnificent, but also very alien. It's not quiet on the water - a couple of barges are going the same way ahead of us. Eventually we round a corner and see the barges ahead swing out to join a huge procession of boats and ships sailing in. Rows of them, large ships; from a distance they'd almost looked like small islands or rock protrusions. We get closer and see the huge harbour walls - rock islands have watchtowers rising and behind, rising like a mountain out of the ocean, is the city. It takes Riglan a moment to realise what he's seeing. Instead of a mountain covered in trees, it is a mountain covered entirely in buildings of all shapes and sizes. Smoke rises from many chimneys. He starts to see, with his keen eyes, carts and horses and people teeming around. There's a mountain to the side with no buildings except a castle, sprawling his way up, then he sees atop it a larger building that almost looks like a giant stable.

"Temo, are you *sure* this is a good idea?!" but Temo is just wide-eyed with wonder. To him, he just sees gleaming towers of glass and stone, flags and pennants, griffons with riders circling around the mountain. There's an ancient castle; a slender pale blue and white tower rising like a lighthouse, gleaming at the top; he's never seen this many ships despite his time in Luskan. Tens of them all over. The closer we get, the more we all see, the more people and detail - carts and wagons and carriages. Buildings we mistook for houses turn out to be tall, many-storey inns.

Just as Riglan thinks he might be able to get his head around it, we've rounded into the harbour mouth and are approaching the docks - and the *noise*. It's so loud! People shouting, animals, carts rumbling around, small boats like ours shouting to larger ships or to people on the docks that seem to be managing things. It looks like coins are exchanged. At first we get overlooked as our boat is so small, then we're asked by a passing ship - who look astonished - if we're heading into the harbour. Yep, we're new! They advise us to keep away from the piers and they direct us to a shoreline - we must not cross particular waterways or the huge ships might just mow us down. It's slow going as it's too deep to use the pole and we're out of practice with the oars, especially with all the ship wakes and the waves, although at least the waves are smaller within the harbour walls. It takes us almost an hour to get from the entrance to a much more sheltered, shallow area with what looks like many smaller boats, many of which seem to be lived in as if houses. It's a strange ramshackle colony. The shore is slightly muddy, with various fishermen hanging nets; racks and racks of fish cure in the early morning sun, big warehouses behind. Riglan: Wisdom saving 13+9 -> 22, he's almost over-stimulated! Overwhelming. He doesn't understand why people would choose to live in these boats, or in what appears to be such poverty; it seems to involve worse living conditions than anywhere else he's seen, since even the poverty of Sungift does not take away the ability to have space and some kind of dwelling. But then he notices all the other things; the warehouses, the other people. He's reminded suddenly of Sungift when he was a child and first sneaked in, which, back then, seemed big and confusing; or a bigger, but more familiar feeling by then at Yartar. But this is a whole other level.

We get up the boat up and pull it ashore and as we do that we notice people looking at us and eyeing up the boat. Temo says to Riglan, "we don't need this to get home, do we?" and Riglan says, "I don't really fancy trying to row back out that harbour, push along the coast and row all the way back up to Yartar, to be honest!" and Temo says, "Well, then, it's like old times" and calls over to the people watching and says, "Hey, we've just finished a big journey in this stout boat. We're hoping to pass it on to folks who will know how to treat it properly and will find it useful." Insight Nat 20+1. People are seeing an opportunity, but want to know what the catch is, but there's a competition between them suddenly implicitly arising. They all want the boat. At that moment, a young woman steps forward - "You should take it to the Mela Coster and sell it to them - they're in that warehouse over there" - and there's a degree of anger that she's done this, but Temo realises she's defused what could have been a dangerous situation. "You don't go into a compound of starving dogs holding one drumstick". Maireagh says, "You heard the lass!" and starts dragging the boat up towards the warehouse - we pitch in to help.

The warehouse is a storage and supply depot. What are you selling? They have need of grain, fresh vegetables, fruit potatoes, ale and coal. They're selling cloth, salt, oil and honey. Temo says, "Honey? Hmm. We have this boat. It's sturdy. Trade?" For the boat they'll give him 6 barrels of honey. Temo realises this is perhaps the wrong scale. He suggests that maybe coin would be a little easier to carry! We're told that the boat isn't seaworthy really, but very well made and good for river transport. "Good craftsmanship, from the North?" - indeed, Yartar, far upriver. "Waterdavian coins or general coins?" This throws Temo off (History: 5+4) - and we're offered "general currency" instead. 15 dragons. Temo says, "Huh?!". "A gold piece. Do you know what that is, sir?" - he's not actually being sarcastic either - "well we call them dragons. You're new to Waterdeep aren't you?" "Yes - is there anywhere we can go to get more information?" "Yes, here are *14* dragons and - " he hands a handful of nibs and shards - "you'll need these for buying or selling in the dock area; if you flash dragons around, they won't last long either through theft or bad trades! See this road here? Go up there towards The Waymoot - can't miss it - dozens of people peddling their wares - it's where most people enter. Don't buy a map. They're free in the city. Don't be fooled. If anyone tries to charge you for anything, just walk on by. You don't need it. There are fliers, information, posters - plenty of information and help." He also tells us particular outfits to look for - city officials.

Temo looks at his handful of strange currency. Thanks the guy and hands him one of the silver pieces as a thank-you, since he didn't take advantage of us and gave us a fair price. As leave, the young lady from the boat rafts earlier is hovering nearby. "You sold the boat?" "Yes" "What are you doing here? You look new!" "We're trying to catch up with a couple of old friends but we don't know quite where to find them... And we're just starting to realise that this could be a difficult problem!" And the conversation continues as we walk, with her in tow.

She offers to take us to the Yawning Portal, whatever that is. No charge - but maybe a cup of Mastica? We know what that is, at least! We agree. Have we had breakfast? She knows a great place. Do we know where we are? Here's the docks. The boat people where we landed, though? That's rough. She takes us along a street pointing at things we should avoid. "That's the Waymoot. It's a total clusterfuck!" - and we see *hundreds* of people. Riglan says, "Oh my, I think that's more people than in all of Yartar..." She's quite scattered and lively, asking various odd questions, some of them quite strange - "Have you had baking before?" - but she's being nice about it. "So we're going to a market?" "Now, yes, you're in South Ward. This is the *best* ward. Anything you want! Any food, drink, spices, anything. It is a treasure trove! Some of these places don't even need money. They'll barter." Nethza asks - "I don't mean to be rude, but what is it you do and what is your name?" "Oh, I'm **Selina**. I do odd jobs. Some days I'm a guide - like now! - I fish, I fix things, I'm a bit of diplomat, very good at negotiation... A bit of poet... - Ah! Here it is!"

We have to keep very close to follow her, especially for Temo and Maireagh as it's so busy. We eventually emerge into a circular courtyard area between 3-storey builders, full of stalls run by one or two people, full of all kinds of food. She takes us at random to a place that does "meat floss" - candyfloss from shredded meat, wrapped in pastry! - "It's very weird!" - we're too polite to argue so we end up getting 5 of them. The market stall owner says "5 for 4 silvers!" and Temo barters a bit, but the guy doesn't budge unless we're taking 10. So we pay 4 silvers. They're very big though! Riglan isn't sure at first, but gets the hang of it. Temo is astonished and loves it. Nethza and Maireagh are OK with it. She takes us to a side area where there's an opening in the side of a building, an awning propped up by a stick, where someone is making mastica brew. Selina insists that it's worth the wait, this place is great! "Cold or hot?" we're asked. It's already quite warm here, so Riglan says, "cold please". Riglan sees ice cubes being used, taken out from some kind of wooden chest - so this place has some kind of magic? - as the shop owner makes 5. 5 silvers. It's served as 5 bags with straws. Now *this* is a drink we understand and we agree with Selina, it's very good. Our group knows Maireagh well enough though that we can see she's not going to just trust Selina out of nowhere.

"Yawning Portal! Yes, that's right!" and start to rush off again. On the way, she explains that people in Waterdeep don't carry weapons usually; we don't have that many obvious, but Temo stows his crossbow away fully and Maireagh gets rid of *some* things into the bag. At the Portal, Selina explains what happens there. We go inside and look around and do have a token drink to be polite - 5 ales. Selina is very surprised and Riglan suddenly realises that she's never been in there before. A few heads turn, most turn back, and that's Riglan's turn to be surprised - nobody seems interested in him being a Firbolg. Even Selina hasn't asked. At the bar, Riglan simply orders 5 ales. The barman introduces himself as **Durnan** and gives us the "fame and fortune" sales pitch. Selina is more introverted. Seeing this Riglan looks to her and says, "you've looked after us on the streets. We'll be sure to look after you anywhere like this." She whispers "it's really expensive!" and Riglan says back, "we know, we've already seen some of the prices in this town, and our means aren't infinite but this is a good place by the looks of it to ask around for Danain, our adventuring friend."

"What will it be?" asks Durnan, gesturing to a bewildering array of kegs and taps *and* a leather-bound menu in front of us. Riglan suggests a Dwarven ale (Temo), a lager (Nethza), Dwarven brandy (Temo), Riglan spies a local fruit wine so tries it, Riglan sees Selina shocked at the prices and says, "well, it's not every day we get to do things like this, so please, feel free to order something you like and just this one time, don't worry about money". She nonetheless picks the cheapest thing she can see. The total is 3.5gp. He asks Durnan, "My name is Riglan, we have been adventuring around the Desarin and Sumber hills" - there's a briff explanation of how come Firbolg were there and Riglan notices that they're aware of his race - "...and we used to have an adventuring friend who left for Waterdeep for sales pitch I think! Fame and fortune. I don't suppose by any chance you've heard the name Danain -" and since Durnan can't remember all the names, we describe him and Maireagh can show the photo. "Oh! My!" - Durnan hasn't been surprised by much at all, but the picture is something new, it seems. He picks it up and examines it. "Very nice! Did you make this madam?" "The name's Maireagh! But yes I did. Have you seen him, this one?" - poking through the illusory image.

A minor illusion is cast by Durnan, adding a goatee and beard to Danain. "Yes, you know, I think I _have_ seen this fella. He's a bard, yes, I think? But not a very good one... I think he did get a gig and got better, I think he changed instrument? If he still has that gig... Find the Guild of Actors and Entertainers. They'll know how to find him. I can at least tell you this - he *isn't* someone who has tried to go into Undermountain. I'm pleased about that, as many who go down there don't return."

We thank Durnan and retreat to a table to drink. Riglan's a little upset because it sounds like Danain is hopefully doing OK, but didn't go adventuring - at least not this way. But then, it sounds like he may have learned that it was more dangerous and difficult than he was expecting. Durnan sees Riglan's ears from a distance and picks up on it, gets someone to cover the bar and comes over. "You seem troubled. Worried about your friend. Was it something I said?" and Riglan explains that he'd hoped Danain would find his riches. "Well, most do, in the end, surprisingly." He pulls up a chair. "Many come to Waterdeep to find fortune. Fame! That's the pitch. Soldiers, mercenaries, sages, adventurers... It's possible for everyone, but not everyone gets there. The *real* Waterdeep experience is discovering yourself and finding - understanding - that there's so much more of value than coin. Wealth can be measured in many ways. The denizens of this great city are wealthy beyond imagining because he has each other." Riglan can see that Selina isn't quite buying it - her circumstances are clearly quite difficult! - and Riglan realises that the Waterdeep "dream" probably has a minimum cost of entry and those who can't afford it won't get the opportunity. At this exchange of glances, Durnan clarifies - "well, *by and large* it's true. Sometimes things take time here, but in any case you might find that your friend has found wealth in family, friends, experience, support and *life*. I don't mean the druid-type of life. I mean the thing that's worth living for. This city is thrumming with it! There's always *something* happening. Opportunities, experiences and adventure - not undermountain - adventure on the streets, the bedroom, *anywhere* you imagine. Cheer up, old fella! Tell you what, I'll put up a little sign on that board over there..." points at the job board - "...this one's on me. Where can we find you?" Riglan says we don't know yet but when might we check back? "Whenever you like! If anyone knows where this Danain is, they'll tell me."

* 'Looking for information on a *Danain*. See Durnan for a drink!'

We finish drinks and head out. We ask Selina for one more favour if she's willing - point us at a place she thinks is good to stay - we don't need fancy but safe is always good - and map. "South ward, then!" and on the way at a kiosk, takes a map and hands it to us. The reverse has various "things to know" about Waterdeep, which are helpful. She drops us off at "The Bleeding Griffon", a quaint looking Halfing-run inn. She says, "Hope you're a morning person - this neighbourhood wakes up early, but oh! The food and smells. This is the best place to be!" and we thank her again and Riglan hands her 5 silvers as thanks - she didn't ask for money and this will buy her some of that meat floss for a few days. She's very grateful. She shakes his hand and says, "Well, if you ever need to find me again - I'm just South of the Waymoot - unless of course I have another commission for the day!" and skips away. Maireagh punches Riglan gently in the side, "You are such a softie! You'd be fleeced dry if you went to Mirabar!"

The inn is serviceable, nothing fancy. One room for four, or two rooms for two. The bigger room has its own bathroom so costs more and, in any case, we're accustomed to sticking together so we take the bigger room. We make a guess at two nights - 3gp ("dragons") total.

We go to the info kiosk to find places to sell our various wares. Investigation for Temo: 20!+12 -> 32. Temo instantly has it figured out - the city might be big but it works the same way. He's pointed to the Exchange for gems, Balthors for magic items, the Guild Of Artists for artwork, the row of scroll shops and book stores; and the main market for big things, and so we set to work. He can't resist picking up baked goods - the innkeepers can help and there's a halfling bakery right behind the inn!

For the rest of the day we embark on selling. We figure we'll start on gems first and head straight to the Exchange.

* 2 black opals est 2000gp
* 1 blue sapphire est 1000gp
* 2 fire opals est 2000gp
* 1 huge ruby est 5000gp
* 3 emeralds est 3000gp

Temo is very persuasive - nat 19+13 -> 32! - and despite the typical value estimation of around 13K, the offer 14300gp especially because they want the ruby; it's especially big, pristine and unique and this is Waterdeep, where the unusual commands a premium. Obviously we accept! It's paid in trade bars which go into Maireagh's bag. We're handed a beautiful off-white egg shell coloured card with gold trim and embossing, as motivation to come back if we find anything like that again in future. They're even accommodating enough to take our various tradeable gems, of which we now have many, and exchange them for gold via faster estimations - weighing and such-like.

We head out and Temo is just stunned. 25 THOUSAND gold, when once he played drums for crusts of bread. How can we use this, how can we make the world better?! Nethza has a strange look too and Riglan asks what's up. "It's so strange - no-one here has looked at me weird... I noticed how strange it was but at the same time it shouldn't be strange. It's great! But I don't trust it, at the same time; I'm waiting for something to go wrong. I've never been around people other than the three of you and a handful of other friends, that treat me this way. We must have seen thousands of people and ndbody's batted an eyelid. There are even other Tieflings here." Riglan understands. His experience of difference had been people's curiosity. Hers had been one of hostility. Maireagh is more comfortable too. She'd not seen many dwarves, but the exchange area has many. It doesn't feel so strange.

The art dealers are nearby and we think that's a good place to go.

* AERISI'S JEWELLERY: Aerisis's crown, rings, bracelets and necklaces combined are worth 180*p*p we think.
* VANIFER'S CIRCLET: Estimated 250*p*p, gold, platinum with inset ruby.

Temo 7->10 (reliable talent) + 23 -> Persuasion. The jeweller also lacks a bit of insight, perhaps because of the unusual nature of the pieces and is very enthusiastic, offering 475 platinum. While she can value the materials, Maireagh can't value art and as noticed how Waterdavians seem keen on unusual things. The jewellery is certainly intricate, artistic and unusual. The deal is done.

Nearby is the clothing too. This takes us past the vast market space; we get 2sp each of food. It seems almost impenetrable from the outside due to being so busy, but Temo runs in and a while later pops out with the goods. For the clothing:

* Marloss Unrayle's silk robe
* Various cultist clothing items

While in the clothing shops, Temo asks around for a Lady Desenya. Surprisingly, one of the tailors does and tells us the area where she can be found but they can't just give away addresses! "Privacy, you understand"... We have the name and location of a tea house she frequents.

It's getting late, and we decide we'll leave the complex business of magic items to the next day, but a good bookshop is always an interesting place. So we head to that area and pick one almost at random - "Book Lane" - and sell some of our unused / unneeded scrolls: 1 L1, 2 L2, 1 L4, 1 L5 and 1 L6. We have to spend a while explaining where we got these from as the L5 and L6 are very high level. The archivist is called to check them and looks over the scroll.

Temo persuasion 16+13 -> 29. The Investiture Of Stone L6 is not one they have and we get offered 2200gp! Immolation, 550gp. Wall Of Fire, 350gp. The L2s fetch 60 and 70gp and the L1 goes for 30gp.

The archivist enquires about scrolls of fireball, hearing that Temo had one. More are always welcome; 150gp; OK! We buy one. A spellbook is mentioned and Riglan remembers, his enduring spellbook - AKA journal - is full and he asks if they have another, showing him the one he's got. He opens a glass case containing several different kinds. Five are more or less the same size as the one he has. One, of embossed leather, has a design that looks like a shower of sparks that lead to stars. Another has five elements surrounding an owl's face and a third has a kind of outline stencil landscape with mountains, trees and a river. This one seems most appropriate, so he selects it. Apparently a friend of the archivist makes them - the back even has a name and address of the manufacturer on the back - made in Waterdeep. 40gp. Riglan pays.

Riglan asks if there are any parks in the city. City of the dead (!) - he explains it's safe! - and Field of Triumph; and of course Mt Waterdeep itself. At the mention of its many older trees, City Of The Dead is our choice. As we get there, a few people are around and, suddenly, a flock of hundreds of drift globes start to lift up and begin floating down streets, glowing. It's quite a sight.

Riglan finds some beautiful, old trees, but not as old as he expected - he was told they were from before Waterdeep - "original trees", the archivist had said, but they seem to be only up to around 600 years old. But Maireagh explains that the city walls look at most a few hundred years old, but certainly not thousands. Temo chimes in with his map/leaflet which has some facts on it - "it's only about 500 years old". It's a surprisingly young place. Nethza realises that Teresiel is older than Waterdeep and has held onto the seeds for as long as the city existed.

Riglan at that finds the oldest tree. It's a grand oak. He puts his hand on the trunk and pulls out the pouch and opens it with the world tree seed. He says to the oak, "this seed is perhaps from a time before there was life in the world as we recognise it"; the tree rustles, which sounds to many like wind, but Riglan senses acknowledgement. The tree recognises the magic inherent and respects it. Riglan says, "I hope you get to be as ancient and as wise as this seed's parent once was. Will it be OK if, perhaps, from time to time, we were to travel through you?" The tree opens a mental connection; it's connected to many other trees - a feeling of *existing* pathways already present. It's quite happy with and familiar with the idea.

We wander around a while then eventually return to the inn, the town is busy and bright and lively but as we tire, there's only so much we can take in. Children play, young lovers walk arm in arm; the town guards patrol but are friendly not suspicious or scowling; it feels very safe but we start to feel strangely disconnected from it. Temo and Nethza are used to evening work and get a bit of a 'second wind', recognising that day-night work shift changeover, but at an extraordinary scale. There's food everywhere, as we were told; we end up with a light evening meal of charcoal-baked fish on skewers with fruit. "Fresh natural fruit, Goldenfields!" says a sign on the stall.

Eventually we're back in our room. The noise outside is thankfully quite muffled and quietened, so long as the window is closed. At least the room is on the side of the building that faces away from the main road. We bathe and chat for a while and Riglan is confident in finding people tomorrow. Maireagh's exhausted and, as we're all talking falls asleep in her chair. We drop into bed and sleep soundly.

## DAY 119

In the morning, Riglan awakes to an epiphany (and a lot of noise outside). Conversations with Teresiel about how she'd seen influences from cultists in her journey, unrecognised at the time but now recognised with hindsight, made him realise with a shock that *he was influenced too*.

**His dreams, right from the start, growing year by year, were from the elemental evil.**

He wasn't immune or special. As the evil had grown, he'd been touched by it too. Perhaps his latent magical abilities were being sought out - he'll never know - others in his tribe didn't have the same dreams but, then, he did tend to stray further South than he should and had sneaked to Sungift on a few occasions.

He was just lucky - too far away. The dreams had been vague and abstract. He suspects he was meant to see burning forests *caused by men* and seek to prevent that by destroying their civilisation in favour of elements but instead, druidic influences from his forest and tribe had cast them in a different light, coupled with a lack of understanding. His first proper encounter with civilisation had led him by chance almost immediately to Temo and Danain, so he never got a chance to form a twisted view of the world tainted by an unseen evil. Instead, he saw it, with its imperfections unhidden but also without any deceit, through the eyes of those who were in their hearts good.

Moreover, this says more about the others than himself. His staff had given him protection quickly. He was in touch with his dreams via innate abilities. Everyone in the area was being influenced to a degree; the cultists often seemed to have fallen directly under influence through proximity in their temples, the fane or the nodes. We had seen the veils falling from their eyes after the destruction of nodes. Yet we were *right in there* ourselves, in the heart of it. Goodness knows what dreams the others might have suffered at night, unremembered in the morning or unspoken at the time, yet they had not faltered. They had neither fled, nor turned on one another, or ever doubted him.

Thinking back in more detail, he remembers how Nethza would ask him particular details about his dreams, and remembers how she mentioned that she had some bad dreams too. He had thought those enquiries to be mostly Nethza helping him understand himself, but most likely, there was more to it. Riglan recognises, at this point, a certain selfishness to his drive - not that he hasn't cared for others - but there was a selfish focus to his perceptions and struggles; to his dreams and how they steered and guided him; to his drive to "fix" whatever it was that he felt threatened his forest - and later, "fix" that which threatened more beyond.

**How lucky he was to have had these people accept him as their friend.**

Nethza wakes shortly after and they spend some time talking about it. Soon after, everyone's up and we figure we should try the Guild of Actors and Entertainers before doing any creepy find-a-person spellcasting to see if they can point us at Danain. Thinking of spells, Riglan recalls the wolves and Summon Lesser Animals. That's one to perhaps use soon, if time arrives - catch up with news about the cubs!

We head out - we don't stop for breakfast; ate a lot yesterday! The Guild is in Castle Ward, quite a walk. It looks rather like a large ticket office (says Temo). Inside there's a short queue; we get to the front eventually. "State your business!" - we explain that we want to try and find a friend who is a performer. We're given some kind of filled-in form and directed to "Rosters And Venues", across the hall. We go there and hand the form to a person sat a desk, amongst many books and wall-hung lists. We explain the name is Danain Martorin. They don't have that name! But they do have three Danains; we ask which of those are bards. "They're all bards of a sort! Danain Spritely, Danain The Brave and Danain Lithgow" - half elf, is that on record, we ask? - "Yes, two of them - Spritely and Brave". We thank him and ask where either might be found. The officer writes the name, points us to a chart on the wall and instructs us to find today's dates and certain numbers that relate to the names. Temo looks (investigation 3->10 (reliable talent) + 12). Riglan helps Temo stand on the dog to see the whole board!

* Danain Spritely is at The Singing Seashell, down by the South Ward
* Danain The Brave is performing at The Twisted Chimney, north of Market

Since it is closest, we try to find The Twisted Chimney. It's early but the market is already busy. Temo knows how it all works of course, so he's able to help us move through the flow effectively. The area he takes us to have a few interesting shops and a bakery (a human bakery - he looks for custard tarts in the window - none!, lots of twisted breads with glazing and salt crystals; savoury, mostly - perhaps another time). Riglan is mostly looking at rooftops and chimneys. At the end of the lane he spots a tall brick building that seems to be built *around* a large, twisted chimney - perhaps from an old forge. That's the place. "The Twisted Chimney Tavern". It is not open, but there's a playbill posted in a glazed box next to the entrance:

"**DANAIN THE BRAVE!**" - with three dates (today, tomorrow, next day) - "Starts at 6 bells". Temo thinks he knows what that means. No picture, but we'll take in a show. "**ASTOUNDING FEATS OF SKILL! DARING, FRIGHTENING ACTS!**" - there's a drawing of a tiger. Rawr.

We figure it's a bit early to bother Desenya, but we do have a lot of magic items that we don't think we can use. Balthors isn't *too* far, so we wander that way. We don't really like the look of the drays; we're seeing much more on foot and Temo's very good with crowds.

Along the way down, Temo spots in Castle Ward, up an almost-hidden set of steps to one side, painted white with small tables and white tablecloths, a small café. Riglan thinks it looks a bit posh but Temo gets a good vibe and suggests we might see how their mastica brew is, so we head up. We are greeted by a male Tiefling. "Good morning! A table for four? This way!" and leads us inside, through a short indoor space and to a somewhat elevated courtyard space with flower pots and climbing ivy. Four small tables with wrought iron chairs. There's a long, thin menu. "May I get you something to drink? Tea? Wine? Fruit juices?" Temo says, "Mastica!" "Yes, we do, but we serve small mastica brews here. Not those large mugs!" Temo shrugs and says, "OK, we'll try it. Four!"

The menu talks of bacon, stacked pancakes, butter bread and more beyond. There's a cold breakfast of cheese and meat with some vegetables, which Riglan likes the sound of despite not being too hungry; Temo sees the word "pancakes". Nethza wants to try some kind of bread dipped in egg. Maireagh is keen on bacon on toast. So, when the coffee arrives we order. Ornate, porcelain cups on saucers, which Riglan picks up and looks confused; asks Temo what it's for and Temo explains. It's really good, though - much more delicate and floral than we expected; neither thin, nor coarse and strong. We didn't really know it could be like that.

Soon after, food arrives; it's beautiful, which we were sort of expecting by now (and we're bracing ourselves for the cost). The pancakes have berries and a vanilla custard, with slices of banana, which Temo's never had before. Nethza's has fruit too - she tries it, a little uncertain, but it's good. Riglan is relieved that his breakfast is quite light but has a lot of variety along with a sliced bread roll with butter in a small bowl shaped like a chicken (!) - Riglan shares the bread around. Marieagh gets crispy bacon and spinach, with some tomatoes and a few other decorations.

Maireagh and Temo start playing with the service a bit - they avoid drinking coffee until the waiters are distant, then drink quickly so the waiters scurry back to refill. Naughty... Eventually the bills arrives on a silver tray. 8.5gp. Crikey. Well, figures. Temo puts down 10 gold - apparently it's a custom? - he explains that's why he doesn't feel so bad about playing the "refill cup" game. 10 gold though, 1 platinum, for breakfast.

On the way out, the Tiefling is there with a small tray that has four small folded cardboard boxes, which we guess we're meant to take and each take one, thanking him. We get outside and look in the boxes - each contains a small chocolate confectionary made to look like a rose. We look back - the café's name is "**The Rose Eternal**" - we didn't even notice that when we first arrived.

We get back on track and get to Balthors. Riglan is a little shocked to see "Thayan Embassy" across the way - history, total 18 - and recalls the encounter at Old Owlbear Tower. Why are they here?! He's technically neutral, but raising the dead - _especially_ the unwilling dead - is something else. Well, not our fight, but strange nonetheless.

We go into Balthors. The party experiences the same surprise and wonder as Gnog's party once did - the larger-than-possible inside, the levitating stone slabs and so-on.

A small kobold runs up and welcomes us. It makes Temo jump, but Riglan is calm and tells Temo it's OK. We explain we have a couple of items to sell, and are in the market for some healing potions too. He leads us to one of the stone disks and we're conveyed up to the 2nd floor, then led to a counter. We produce the Claws Of The Umber Hulk and Gauntlets Of Flaming Fury. Temo, persuasion 12+13 -> 25. 350pp for the Claws (woah), 280pp for the Gauntlets - 630pp in total. We gladly accept, but there is the matter of purchases first, so we are given a written credit note.

The kobold takes this and conveys us another area on the same floor, then down some small spiral stairs to a separate section of the first level. There are shelves full of potions. Riglan, feeling rich, says, "we were thinking maybe one Greater and a couple of Regulars each?" - and the kobold looks at a particular shelf; Riglan notices two larger potions above and asks. The Regular is 50gp, the Greater 200gp; or five of Superior, 500gp each and one Supreme, 900gp. Everyone is looking surprised, so Riglan says, "tell you what, how about four regular, four greater, four superior and I guess the one supreme, since we just sold so much?" - a whopping 390pp total. "No problem", we're told! Goodness - quite something to have such resources. "Is there anything else?" Riglan thinks a minute and remembers the ice he saw and asks what magic might be keeping things that cold. We're led back to the *main* area of the first level via up the stairs and down the disk, then led to an isle full of various chests. "You're looking for a Chest Of Preserving - 55gp" "What does it do?" "It keeps things fresh and cold. They come in different sizes - the biggest are 100gp" The 55gp one is a good size to get into Maireagh's bag and indeed the kobold points that out, apparently aware of the bag's significance; he asks if we're interested in anything similar to that, looking in particular at Temo. Temo asks about the price of the small backpack that we'd been told was similar to Maireagh's bag (Handy Haversack) - 500gp. The kobold also notes Temo's poorly-concealed crossbow and we follow him along to the third floor where he demonstrates the Quiver of Ehlonna, a way to store ammunition without the weight - and other long, pointy things too. 350gp each. Riglan is interested for his javelins, since apparently they can be stored too. Maireagh insists that she needs to buy nothing, but Nethza is interested in anything magical that might replace or supplement her Shadowfell Shard. "We could get something made", we're told; a "Rod Of The Pact Keeper", apparently. After thinking a while - the caveat is she has to hold it - Nethza agrees; it'll take a day and is 300pp. We think we're almost done, then Temo spots them - two sending stones. "Look! Look!" he says, excited; "These come in a pair!" - how much? - 25pp. This would've been useful earlier but, who knows, might be useful again. Temo's more than half way through his paper birds after all.

* All the healing potions: 390pp
* Two quivers: 70pp
* Handy Haversack: 50pp
* Rod Of The Pact Keeper: 300pp
* Sending stones: 25pp
* Chest: 55*g*p

835pp plus 55gp. The credit note is for 630pp, but we agree after some discussion that we haven't used Lightbringer in ages - we have other ways of doing that damage and more, and don't need its light now - so that's another 50pp. This means we owe a balance of 155pp + 55gp. It's a bit dizzying to spend that kind of money in such a cavalier way and this in itself is learning experience for Riglan. Wealth scales up.

As we're repacking things, the kobold spies Temo's infrequently-used, but *sometimes* used basic shortsword. Despite being shocked by how much we're spending, it seems silly to stop now and the item would be useful in future and we get hold of that too. As we're leaving, the kobold tells us to look into an armourer's nearby - recommended for armour and shields, which they don't do. He gives us a card. We head there!

We go up North-East along Winter's Way (**past the Goliath Drinks!**) then cross East to the North Eastern corner of Trade Ward. It's a Dwarven armourer, to Maireagh's delight. There's a shop front, but many forges at the back - it's actually a group / collective of armourers and smiths, with a common shop front - **The Dwarven Armourers Collective**. Maireagh just admires what's there. Nethza uses magic for protection but does only have a basic shield; then there's Temo - with his basic studded leather - and Riglan with his beaten up old shield.

We make enquiries. We are lead to a female dwarven druid and female gnomish druid, who specialise in exotic materials, avoiding metals. They present something that feels to us like the armour Temo might have been always looking for; it's made by the gnome for gnomish size so fits Temo perfectly with only minor adjustments. "Think about a situation," she says, "a place you've been where you want to look a certain way." Temo thinks of the Grand Dame casino. Suddenly, he's not in studded leather armour - it's a full tuxedo. Riglan gasps - it's an extremely convincing illusion. We're told that it's Glamour Armour! He can think about how he wants it to look at it'll assume that appearance - either other armour or clothing - and it'll stay until the armour is removed or Temo commands it to change. No time limits. That's amazing but we fear expensive; the basic leather and +1 enchantment isn't too bad but the glamour does add a bit. 110pp including a very solid discount for his old armour; he's hardly ever been hit and it's in surprisingly good condition (and was very high quality originally). Magical cleaning and mending has helped. We buy it! Locally made in Waterdeep.

Finally, they show Riglan two shields. One is made out of treated, cured bulette carapace that seems as strong as stone; it acts as a +1, but costs 275gp due to the rare material. The other is 225gp and beautiful, but metal; a sort of diamond shape, and Nethza finds herself interested in that to augment her magical abilities. 50pp overall and seems well worth it.

Phew. So _that's_ what money can do! Riglan muses that all this would've been very useful a long time ago, but also that a long time ago we couldn't have afforded it. He also wonders if they might not have appreciated the value - in terms of utility and actual value of price - had they not done what they'd done without. These purchases are extravagant and seem almost selfish but set them up for a safer future as the family they want to form and will help them with whatever future quests they might undertake.

We look at the note with the tea house location for Desenya. It's in North Ward - bit of walk but we're close enough and figure it's worth heading that way to ask around. As we walk, Temo occasionally changes his illusion outfit, delighted with his new armour.

About 20 minutes later, we're at the tea house; it's close to the Sea Ward boundary. "The Silver Tip Room". A tea reference, but none of the party know it, and Temo suspects it might mean that gratuities are expected, but Maireagh disagrees. Riglan thinks for a while, then remembers that he's encountered wild tea plants a few years ago (nature check, total 25) which have, in spring, silver tips - it's a reference to the tea being very fresh and high quality, at his best guess.

We head in. It's not a pretentious place inside; good furniture, many tall windows, but rather than people sitting at tables they're sat on couches, with low tables nearby. The room is maybe 50x50ft - large - with a small fireplace lit at one end that looks perhaps more decorative than functional. We see people acknowledge us but we're not approached and guess that we're just meant to find a seat; there are several empty so we pick an area and sit down. A waitress comes over and drops us some tea menus with about 8 options, that seem to be named after places. On the reverse are some additional items that seem to be fruit flavoured options.

We let Maireagh choose. She's good with tea. She doesn't know where some of the places are, so chats with the waitress and takes a recommendation. A big pot for the table. There's a small tray of biscuits too. When she does that, Temo politely enquires about Desenya (persuasion 11+13->24). The waitress looks a bit reluctant - we assume more privacy things - but Temo makes it sound like we may be meeting her, but mentions it is in relation to a contract. We were told to meet her and know she comes here. The waitress asks another staff member for "Lady Norvale", and we hear that she's not been in today but is usually due around this time - our good luck! - we should wait. **About 20 minutes later, she arrives**, with an older well-dressed (coat and shirt, not stuffily dressed) gentleman with a hat.

She sees us on entry. "Ah! Oh! You've made it to Waterdeep!" she exclaims, before catching herself and lowering her voice. Pleasantries are exchanged, we're even offered a room with her rather than in the noisy "colourful part of town (!)" South Ward but we're happy enough there. She asks to join us ("of course!") and the waitress shortly after comes over with a small pot of tea. Riglan says, "Hello, I'm Riglan..." and introduces the party members, to the gentleman. "Oh yes, sorry! This is Arthur. He looks after my estate" says Desenya. We explain that we're *not* here to collect on any monies, just wanted to see that she was here and safe but Desenya insists. "I don't want to blow my own horn, but my family is quite important here - even if I were not the one to pay this, Arthur would do so on behalf of the family - they would insist. As it stands, you did a whole lot more than just saving me; I know I wasn't the only one who you saved." Apparently Teresiel came to her in a dream so she knew she was saved too.

"You're also in the unenviable - perhaps fortune! - position of having remained very much in escape of notice of those who keep an eye on the comings and goings of the affairs of the sword coast. They know something's changed, that much is for sure, but they don't know that it was you. Really, it's up to you I guess whether you want to keep it that way. There could be many economic benefits to people knowing what you've done but by the same token there could be many privacy benefits to keeping it quiet."

Riglan thanks her for the advice and says that we think we will have adventures ahead of us, perhaps on our own terms, perhaps through the Enclave, but we don't seek glory and already carry more money than we rightly think anyone should ever have. We also mention the Forge Of Spells and how this is a source of income too, so think we have a comfortable future if we should so seek it, either way.

"Understood. Would you like me to spread the word to keep your identities a secret, and not be linked to this series of events? If you prefer?"

"Would that help avoid interest of people like the Zhentarim?" asks Riglan.

"What have you done?!" she asks.

Riglan explains that Marieagh's gifts are very interesting to them and that they've pursued her many times.

"I'll tell you what. It sounds like you are not without your means... I - as our way of saying 'thank you', the Noble House of Norvale - can ensure that the Zhentarim leave your friend alone."

Maireagh asks what that means. Desenya replies, "There are many things that be achieved with money. It's one of the languages of commerce and the Zhentarim are nothing if not mercenary! For the right sum, they will turn their attentions elsewhere."

Riglan says, "Well, that sounds like something approaching a dream come true from our perspective - please put our 200 gold towards that endeavour." Riglan insight: 18+9. He knows the sums they're talking about are very much higher. So he follows with - "I realise it's much more than that, so wouldn't feel right taking anything else!"

"It would make *me* happy in being able to do this in return." She looks to Arthur and he nods. We thank her in return. "Right. Let's have a drink to celebrate!" she says. The waitress comes over with fresh tea cups and a new pot. Desenya pours it. Very clearly not tea! We raise a toast. It's old elven wine of some kind - very good. We hang out for an hour or so catching up.

When we're done, we say we'll leave her in peace and bid her farewell. "The late afternoon is a lovely time to wander through the North Ward and past the City Of The Dead. One of my favourite walks". We say we hope we bump into her again some time. She leaves us a card with her contact details to make it easier. We write "Old Owlbear Tower, Deepgarden Keep" in return - if she should ever need our services. Desenya insists on paying the bill. Thanks again!

We head out. A short distance down the road, Riglan stops and puts his hand on Maireagh's shoulder. "You're free" he says. "I guess we could've sold this after all!" she says, looking at the Amulet of Protection. "Well, we don't know what battles lie ahead and it could come in handy any time". In the mean time, Maireagh puts the amulet away in her bag.

We follow the walk Desenya mentioned. It is indeed lovely. Riglan starts to warm to this strange, busy, flawed place a little. It has its upsides. Temo remains enamoured, as he was from the start. A cool breeze helps, blowing through from the sea along the many streets. The scent of plants from The City Of The Dead blows with it, but there are all sorts of beautiful gardens in the various estates in this ward. Nethza remains somewhat wary though - the inequality of wealth is very evident - and voices this; Temo concedes that this is true, but it seems on a scale beyond us. Maireagh is deep in thought. She's not really paying attention that much, not too observant often.

We continue right through back down into South Ward, looking for the Singing Seashell. It's to the West, close to Dock Ward, on a very wide road called The Way Of The Dragon. The tavern is huge! It's also open, so we go in. A few tables are empty but not cleaned down yet. When full it looks like it might fit 60-70 people. We approach the bar to ask about performances - bards or the like. "Ah yes! Every night, two shows. We ask about Danain Spritely. "Ah yes! Sir Spritely! A comedy act, kind of bawdy. There are three of them - they usually come in and kick off whenever they want more or less! Any time between 5 and 8." Another person calls, "8?! You're lucky if they're here by 8, but they'll go 'til 12 before the late-night show comes on at 1. Are you sure that Spritely is on the early shift tonight?" The barman confirms it.

To be polite we'll buy three ales and a lager ("the cold thing", it's not a lager but close apparently). Only 12 coppers. We find a random table and finish up. It's fine, just nothing special but the tavern does have lots of atmosphere for sure. Games boards, a long table with people sitting and laughing; no sign of a stage right now. There's a brief menu - Soup, Meat, Bread! - with various huge barrels behind the bar and that's about it. It is a local's place, not a tourist place.

We figure by the sounds of it that we should start at the Chimney and finish at the Seashell after an hour or two if the bard isn't our Danain.

After about half an hour, just as we're about to leave, the door crashes open. An older gentleman stumbles in wearing almost a naval officer style jacket with signs of obvious repair and white trousers. He carries all manner of accoutrements. He leans against the bar - "Just get me started!" - the bartender rolls his eyes and pulls a drink - "At least you're here early for a change. Where are the others?" "I thought they'd be here already. Are they not here?!" - a table of people are moved to another area, the table moved aside, some boxes are brought out into the space to form a makeshift stage and canvas tapestries hung.

The barman comes to us and says, "Well, you were waiting for Sir Spritely!" - we politely thank him. Moments later a female halfling runs in looking worried, then heads over and helps with setting up. She heads out the back and emerges again in a bustiere, heavy makeup and wig. A quite half-elf arrives to complete the trio, long black hair over his eyes, carrying a large sitar which he sets up and starts to tune.

Sir Spritely kicks off by just telling a bawdy joke. Lowbrow. Riglan thinks it's funny, though he's a bit nervous about it being maybe rude and offending people. The trio riff off each other and it's certainly not polite, but Riglan enjoys it - the half-elf plays background music. There's a tin cup placed at the front. Riglan sees coppers being thrown in. He says to Temo, "This seems familiar. I think this man has unwittingly helped us find *our* Danain and for that, let's make his night." Riglan and Temo each throw in one gold.

We thank the barman as we head out and start the rather long walk to the Twisted Chimney.

Along the way, Nethza asks if we can just have look at the various markets. 2sp each for an assortment of street treats. Riglan suggests, if we're not too tired and if it's allowed, that we come back to that big market we say down here last night with the dangers and fire jugglers and maybe join in ourselves (Temo says, "That was called Caravan Court"). We agree as a group that we kind of like this approach to food rather than these big sit-down meals, unless it's some kind of celebration maybe.

We finally arrive at the Twisted Chimey. There's a bit of a crowd! People are queueing, so we join the queue. Maireagh asks, "What *is* this nonsense? Why are we queueing? There's clearly no space inside!" "Maybe just so we can stand up inside?" We finally get to the door. "How many tonight?" "Four" "Show, or a table?" "Just show, please" "Alright! 2 silvers each." There are some raised eyebrows at the metal dog but we bluff our way in with that.

Inside, it's much more of a show area. There are stairs leading to a couple of mezzanine levels. On the higher levels people are dining, but on the ground floor there are smaller tables next to seats or leaner tables. We're shown to a small side table next to four seats. Riglan asks if they make anything to drink at Goldenfields? No. But they have local mead. Four! 5cp each (2sp). We wait with baited breath, hoping to see "our" Danain this time.

Thaumaturgy is used; the lights dim; conversations hush. A drift globe floats up over the stage. Music is playing from the darkness. Curtains pull down and sat, with a hood up and cape, playing a lute in a moody piece is a figure lit almost spotlight-like by the globe. The tempo increases more and more until the cape and hood are thrown back. It's Danain! He pulls out his rapier dramatically. People gasp. He does a strange sword swallowing routine, takes a bow. From the rafters drops a rope ladder with wooden steps. He leaps and grabs one, swinging around, just shy of tables as the rapier swings. More gasps. He proceeds to perform various acrobatic acts, pretty impressive; then he launches into a song, telling a tale of adventure, of owlbears and dragons and manticores. Then, the lute again. The performance is a good 15-20 minutes long and high energy. There is applause! The curtains shut and waiters start to come back. We learn that he does several such performances with brief interludes, each is different. For example, his next involves a change of outfit and a philosophical - but comedic - monologue. And so-forth; difficult. There's no tip jar.

We're all watching when Riglan realises Temo is missing. Temo's gone to the bar and is trying to get a backstage audience - we're old friends - but he's got Maireagh's picture and - adv. pursusasion, thanks to photo - 3, then Nat 20! + 13. At that moment, there's a break and Danain approaches the bar - sees him - "En garde, Mr Smoothhands! What are you doing in my neck of the woods?!" He swoops down and gives Temo a big hug. Temo brings him to the table. He's not got long, we ask if he'll be free after. He asks if we're *really* going to stay the whole show? It's one and a half hours! He seems a little nervous that _people he knows_ are watching. Anyway, it's fine; we're enjoying it; he'll wait.

"Ladies and gents, gnomes and gnolls and orcs. This next act - which some of you may have seen before - was inspired by an old friend of mine who I saw performing. I will need a volunteer. Do I have a volunteer?" - an enthusiastic volunteer is handed a wooden sword. An assistant takes over playing "high tension" music. There's an act of breaking into a room, freeing a person from kidnap and so-on. It's very Baron Munchausen! Riglan suddenly realises, when Danain says "But I heal myself!" that it's the very first battle they had together.

"Can we please have a round of applause for our volunteer!"

At the last act, there's a grand finale, very high energy, juggling flaming torches and swords. He throws them out to specific spots in the room, carefully orchestrated in hindsight but it's very dramatic in the moment. Swords embedded in bannisters and so-on. He finally extinguishes the torches via fire eating. Bows, applause, introduces his assistant, more bows and so-on.

"Thank you very much Waterdeep! Have a lovely mid-Autumn festival night."

Danain finally comes over to us, drink in hand and sits with us. We catch up! His act was great, we enjoyed it. He admits that he'd started off at the Yawning Portal, tried to get in with a group but figured he didn't have the skills - it sounded very messy - he did get involved in one escapade but it didn't go well. He decided to seek other honest employment in the meantime! He's ended up very into his performing. He spends mornings helping out at a rehoming organisation - he tells us that there are still lots of war refugees; we'd almost forgotten about the whole war thing we'd heard about! - and in hearing their stories, it's grounding but provides material. We say that we'd always be happy to tell him our own, though there are clearly no shortages of new people in the city.

He'd done the rounds in various taverns but found that instead of tips, setting up a proper show and building a reputation was more reliable. The Chimney is his favourite spot.

We sit and chat and drink into the late night; Danain wants all of the stories. At around 10pm, a singer gets on stage and livens the room, but we're deep in conversation. We stop occasionally to appreciate it though. By midnight, Maireagh yawns! We hear that Danain has a room in a shared lodging, he's happy there; he's trying to court someone, but slow going. He sees her once a week. Trying to make it twice a week. Picking up more work elsewhere, too, doing some writing for a troop. Apparently he has a knack, helped by his story collecting.

Riglan says, "I think if you'd stayed with us, you might have more temporary wealth, but lots of battles, lots of danger, and none of the rewards or longer term life changes you seem to have found... Are you happy?" "Yeah - I think - I think I am. I'm building a life. I might get itchy feet again soon, head out to find stories of my own. It's great hearing others, but having your own is better. If this thing doesn't work out with her, well, there are boats leaving Waterdeep, heading to interesting lands. I'm thinking of doing that. Waterdeep is a very comfortable place to be so I'm in no rush, but I can *hear* the siren's call of adventure, drawing me back into the churn of life, wherever that takes me."

Temo pipes up, "Don't forget us though. Old Owlbear Tower, Deepgarden Keep."

Danain says it'd be nice to head back up North, but who knows! He tells us some tales about his travels down - very eventful, took almost 3 weeks. Unsafe roads.

Maireagh nudges Temo - she says - "We have something for you!" - and Temo says, "Oh yes! We found this, and we lacks the skills to use it..." and he pulls out the Mac-Fuirmidh Cittern. "It lets you cast spells too!"
 
Danain's eyes go wide. "This is *incredibly* rare. Where did you find it?" - we explain it was from Windharrow, of the air cult, in our big battle with Aerisi. "Well, thank you! This is so very special!" - he plays it. Sounds beautiful. Him and Temo geek out a bit over spells and bond again over that. Temo says, "If you do go adventuring, it can be a lot of fun, but the most important thing is, find people you care about and you trust to help you along the way. It's what worked for us. And you're always part of that."

"Well, it looks like you've really managed to find a very magic family. You've been through so much together! It's great to see. I'm so happy to see you - I mean, how long are you in Waterdeep?" "We haven't really thought about that - we've paid for one more night at our inn, but it's not like there aren't other places to stay or we could stay there... We can stay as long as we like, I suppose."

We say another few days to enjoy the town wouldn't hurt, if he's asking so we can catch up more during the day or something? He invites us to his work with the relief effort. We head home, agreeing to meet at 10am the next day. It's a bit late for Caravan Court as we head past - maybe tomorrow!

## DAY 120-122

Early on, we pick up Nethza's rod, get some bakery and book three nights at "The Bleeding Griffon" for 4 dragons and 5 shards (4gp, 5sp). There is fresh fruit and vegetables; a festival is going on - as we heard last night - Mid Autumn Festival; decorations are now up. It's a good day for bakery - Temo is very happy.

Finally, we head off to the meeting with Danain. We learn about the rehoming effort. It's a question of figuring out skills, where people might be best suited. Various trade guilds have representatives there too, taking on people where employment is available. It's a curious insight into the fallout from what was, now very obviously, a really big war we didn't even know happened! There are lots of donations happening and Temo enquires quietly, out of earshot of Danain, if money would help? Apparently the City of Waterdeep pays, so that's not an issue.

In the end, we spend the day, pitching in. Though volunteers, the people there are given a "living wage" amount and lunch is supplied.

Riglan after this says, "Danain, do you remember way back, the undead in that old temple with Clara and Kyla?" "Yes of course!" "The way you were the first to refuse when they wanted to pay us with the jewellery scraped together - that really made me realise right then what kind of person you truly were. And the work you're doing here kind of proves it again. It's good work."

The next couple of days we get to know the city better. We attend shows and plays, visit the massive, grand library of Waterdeep, Temo makes it to the fabled Blackstaff Tower and finally seeing the home of the academy with his own eyes. He even says hello to the famous Varja, who is reasonably impressed with Temo's magic given he's not "technically" a wizard. 

* On the penultimate night, we do a little ad hoc performance at Caravan Court, just for fun - even Danain joins in with his new cittern. Maireagh casts Enhance Ability on Riglan to help! She also does various illusions, Nethza fire-dances, while Temo uses his drums and Riglan his horn. Riglan performance: Adv. from Maireagh, 16 + proficiency 4, dirty 20; Temo adv. from more of Maireagh's help, 27; Nethza 21. Very good for a free gig for fun! It's wonderful to be playing with Danain again too, the combination of different instruments working well.

* On the last night, Danain with his courting girlfriend recommends that we all go to a place he performed early on - expensive, but not as expensive as the Yawning Portal! - you'd think it was an inn but they don't ever seem to rent out the rooms. It's called "The Goliath Drinks"; we take in a performance there. We even chat with the apparent Golaith himself, apparently accompanied by two Dragonborn, a young girl and a curious metal man of whom Maireagh has particular fascination, but is very polite and doesn't pry. She actually feels quite at ease because, for once, people don't seem to be staring at her metal dog!

There are emotional goodbyes and Temo gives Danain a paper bird, insisting that if he does choose to leave for distant lands, he sends a message so we have a chance to get to say goodbye - we can always find him if he's in Waterdeep and he can find us via Owlbear Tower. We say if he wants to come up, he could use the paper bird to ask as we can fast-travel him to save him danger on the roads if he prefers, unless of course, the journey is half the point.

So we finally head to bed for our last night in the Griffon.

## DAY 123-127

In the morning we check out. Riglan 'relearns' Walk On Water for future travels.

We feel a little introspective to be leaving this all behind, but Danain comes to see us off. We'd explained tree travelling and he's curious. Riglan leads us all to the City Of The Dead and the big old oak tree. Danain reminisces about the Caravan Court performance. **Finally, Riglan casts his spell; the tree portal opens; and we step through, Danain waving as we leave**.

We emerge in the garden at Summit Hall and **are promptly reminded by Knight Commander Ushien about the books in the crypt, which we agree to take as they were never meant to reside there permanently**. We agree to take them and bid farewell.

* On the way up North, there's Reulek's crown. We head to the Halls Of The Hunting axe, exploring and fighting the various haunting undead and beasts. We find the royal crypt, the king not there (we know he was entombed with the quake of Besilmir). We lay the crown down, with a spectre of Reulek appearing and thanking us. Maireagh has a fun time with history! Takes a day or two.

* We cut across and water-walk to the monastery to say goodbye to Renwick and check he has all the books he needs; he expresses interest in the Mirabar books and we say we could come over some future time to read them. We take the time to use Helenray's key to lock the gate at the top of the stairs down - just in case.

* Finally we travel to Yartar, arriving on the evening of day 127; we check in at the Griffon.

## DAY 128 (Yartar)

We catch up with the Water Baron as well as Lanowin at the archives. We leave a few of the journals with him for his own studies. The Archive has a vault, so we elect to leave the Ornate Silver Ewer with the Dwarven runes there. We also at long last return the loaner book to Llanowar at the Undertower academy.

## DAY 129-137 (to Sungift)

We decide to take the slow road all the way up to Sungift, heading for Riglan's tribe. We take a different route, following the river to keep off the road just because we like being in the country and intentionally bypassing Deepgarden Keep for now.

We arrive on the 8th day. It's so much smaller than we remember! It's towards the end of autumn, the nights getting colder, the days shorter; the harvest is in and towns are starting to prepare for winter.

We head for the tavern, Temo and Riglan hoping to see Briony. She's not there! We enquire - she did in fact recently have the baby - **Lucian** - so isn't working; we're directed to her house so we drop in and say hello. She's there with her partner; very young parents. They look tired! We give them some of the Waterdeep exotic fruit from the cooling chest. Between the two busy parents we catch up in snippets of conversation. Temo and Riglan settle into small town conversation - harvest being a day early was big news, for example. We consider leaving gifts of coin, but recall that it's more of a trading economy here. Temo fits in more easily because he's always been the "flambouyant outsider" anyway; that's the point of being 'an act'.

Rather than fill up the local inn, we camp outside; it's not too cold. Riglan warns Temo not to get kidnapped. In the evening, with camp set up, Temo wants to go to the market square. Marieagh is reluctant but Nethza convinces her. Nethza wants to see Temo's old busking site. The market is packing up, but still there; Temo talks about where he used to sit; we get some smoked meats; then Temo goes - "come with me! Come with me!" and we head on a South street down a little alleyway. Temo gets a glint in his eye and jumps on a barrel, that leads to a low shed roof, then up further - he gets us to follow ("come on, we'll miss it! Hurry!") - Riglan knows it'll be the sunset that they first watched together. It sets as the four of us sit as the sun sets in the west, the sky and orange-pink, shining on big clouds, snow-capped mountains to the right, distant clouds behind the forests. The sun quickly dips behind the forests and the sun is set. Riglan says, "I'd almost forgotten what home feels like."

## DAY 138-143 (Sungift to Lurkwood)

In the morning, after a lazy start, Temo and Riglan decide to give a quick "liven them up" performance at the market square with a sign that says, "Post-harvest free show!". It's a good performance - Riglan nat 20-1 + 4, Temo 22. It's fun. Then we head to the forest. Riglan warns them that it'll take a few days, but he can provide plenty to eat and it'll be safe as long he's around.

It's an interesting journey - the forest gets denser, but is then kind of same-y; it's always been a home, not a magic or ancient zone.

## DAY 144 (Riglan's home)

He asks the party to wait just outside camp, hiding, as he doesn't want to shock his tribe. Temo makes a grey, rock-like magic Hut for the party to wait.

Riglan goes to his tribal ground. They're very surprised, especially in his strange clothes. "Oh! What happened? How are you? Has something gone wrong?!" and Riglan assures them it's fine and asks if his parents are around; they are and more people gather and chat, old friends get parents, it's quite a hubbub, even with a few of the tribe off hunting.

Riglan's old mentor greets him. "How was the outside world? Have you found a purpose, have you come home to stay?" and Riglan explains about the enclave, about how he can now travel magically between trees over any distance - they've heard of this before - and so he has much to do and decades or longer he hopes to do it, but he can come home any time easily. He asks permission to introduce his friends - he knows this isn't their normal way, but they're close friends, friends of the forest and, no, you don't have to put clothes on (!) he's warned them already.

**So party meets the tribe.**

Temo appears delighted at the opportunity to lose all clothing, even his new illusion armour, while Nethza and Maireagh stay as they are, as does Riglan to help them feel comfortable. Riglan hands over his various things for the tribe and his early journals - his original book and first enduring spellbook, so they can read about what happened and it can be part of the tribe history. It's quite a party in the end, we're invited to stay for the night and to answer their questions about what's happened (rather than reading lenghty journals!), Temo creates some performances with music and illusions, Nethza acting; we convey a few exciting stories of things we've seen and learned and Riglan eventually concludes by saying that yes, the bad dreams have gone and the forest still faces the threats of expansion that it always has, but the evil is gone.

Interestingly, late into the party, the Shepherd of Ilpharn is asking to be planted into the ground. It wants to connect with plants. Riglan does so, explaining to the tribe the significance of this remarkable staff. We find that it enriches and is enriches by the magic of the area. Trees share memories, and Riglan in turn is suddenly much more connected. The trees are very interested in hearing from the ancient tree living in the staff and Riglan disconnects from the staff a while to leave the trees talking. The Firbolgs present can all understand what's happening and Riglan has to explain - Temo dons his helm, but it doesn't work for plants. Younger firbolg ask about the outside world. Elders warn Riglan against making it seem too appealing - at which Riglan agrees and points out that there are many dangers and challenges and some things are particularly difficult to accept, such as the contrast and contradictions of Waterdeep.

He's asked about the pin and explains more; the tribe is an extension of the Emerald Enclave. We stay the night.

## DAY 145 (Tribe)

There's so much interest from the tribe & so much to see, it transpires, that the party stays another day. There is a feast that night, as they welcome the other four members - including the dog! - into the tribe formally, by extension, since Riglan's said they're as much family as anyone else. They're given wreathes of vines and flowers. It's been a day of showing them the forest treasures, finding honey and fruit and feeling welcomed.

## DAY 146 (Deepgarden Keep)

In the morning, it's time for goodbye, but more of a farewell and Riglan knows now, having studied the trees through the staff, how to get back at any time. He asks the party if it's OK leaving one of the sending stones here, in case his tribe is ever in need. We can always buy more. And with that, Riglan makes a big show of getting the children to stand back, bit further, further again! - and Temo without warning uses the Colour Spray wand into the air as Riglan casts his spell. The portal opens to impressed gasps and with wave and a laugh, Riglan through steps through, followed by everyone else.

We're in Qelline's farm. "Other home!" says Riglan and smiles at Maireagh. We don't disturb Qelline or Carp just yet - she sees us but he's at school anyway - and head to town, grab a bit of food and decide to take a long walk out to Owlbear Tower. Takes a few hours of course, but we move fast and we're there with plenty of daylight left even in these shorter days.

We immediately see that a few more buildings are now finished. The scaffolding is up on the tower for repairs and investigation. The builders have a shack off to one side with a fire going. The "small great hall" - gathering hall - and adjoining living and storage areas are completed; even a little stables. Maireagh directs us to put things in various places, starting a small library from the various journals in the completed library area that she'd asked for - including the precious books from Mirabar, hidden in a crowd of other books. They are probably destined for Candlekeep in due course.

While Maireagh and the others look around, Riglan looks at the trees around the area with fresh eyes. Several a large, and he picks one not too far away from the tower. We now have a way here directly, too.

The builders are glad we're back, and in particular glad to see Maireagh; they're at the point of needing to do the tower excavations, which is the archaeology part where she needs to be present. There has been interest from town of scholars and students who wish to come and be part of the team, which is exactly what Maireagh was hoping for! "Shall I build quarters?" asks the builder - "Like, a bigger kitchen or something, for resident students - even an armoury, or a shop?" We all agree that anything that makes the place both a home but also a place of study or even just a waypoint that happen to be out this way is a good thing and we can certainly pay for it. So, yes! 500gp will get us quarters for people, fully kitted out, set up as a place of study. Easy, and Riglan pays! We say to Maireagh that we could set up an area with some of the journals and books we've kept that aren't too dangerous and some artefacts as a sort of "museum shop front" kind of thing, while she does the excavations.

As we come out of the main building, Temo calls out - he'd disappeared off and we see he's up the scaffold. He is very excited! "Come up! Quickly, everyone!" - he encourages us to climb. It's strong enough, we're told; we ascend. Riglan finds it a nice experience to jump and climb things *without* all of his bags, shield and so-on. We get right to the very top, around 30ft above the ground, which is at roughly tree canopy level. Stood up, all of us can see beyond. Glorious! We see across the the tops of trees to distant glinting streams flowing into the river Desarin, which in turn flows all the way eventually to Waterdeep; and are reminded how even the small things here are connected to everything we've seen.

It feels like we can let down our guard, breathe a sigh of relief and as the sun sets, go down to our **own little great hall**, for a warm stew for the first time, in a place that we can truly call home.

There will always be other things in mind - catching up with the wolves and their cubs, selling potions at Wallheim's, figuring out if it will _ever_ be possible for Renwick to see his brother, whether or not we should venture back down to study more of the Besilmir relics in the ex-temples, for Riglan at least - much more time at Shadowtop. Riglan will eventually ends up with a room where he can take some of his earlier sketches and paint things properly, ending up with quite a collection of, well, rather strange artwork; as Maireagh's archaeology school starts to take shape, a farming school may spring up beside it, with Riglan using the Goldenfields seeds to create a demonstration farming area to show how the forest and farm can coexist. There are the Mirabar books to look after, and, oh yes - we need to get to Sildar in town to let him know that yes, we did get the paperwork done at Yartar! - then there's the possible future matter of Qelline and Temo. 

It's like Qelline said; there's always another thread to pull.

CAMPAIGN ENDS
