# Riglan: Part 3

## DAY 16

We awake in camp, heading back to Deepgarden Keep from Old Owlbear Tower. Humid, hot air blowing in from the East, but no rain. Unusual weather.

Hobgoblin attack! They were lying in wait on the road. Captain plus four. Defeated (Riglan down to 3hp before Maireagh healed him). **Riglan, Timo and Maireagh are mentioned in a note found on the Captain, signed with a mention of Cragmaw Castle and 25gp reward each. Black spider mark again**.

We also find on the Captain a very distinctive amber-in-silver amulet 13gp, along with an ornate greatsword. The amulet identifies as something that hides people from divination magic - can't be found, perceived through scrying or similar. That's *perfect* for Maireagh! So she takes that - no more Zhentarim scrying.

We take the greatsword etc., and get back to town. We visit Daran & Berit first, to tell them what happened. We deposit the various bits of paperwork with the Marshal but keep the coins and gems - as Daran & Berit told us, "to the victor goes the spoils". After some to and fro, **the Marshal agrees to send a courier to Yartar and work out what might be done - e.g. get us excavation rights to study the tower**. To be confirmed once he's heard back.

We sell the greatsword with Costa and the pearl to Font Of Fancy. We head to Byrby Weir to see if the ornate box & fine clothes we got a while back can be sold. It's an interesting place - all kinds of stuff; used to be a general store, but now has everything from drinks to clothes to a small amount of weaponry. Run by brothers, and it's as if they're easily distracted and will sell anything! Good quality stuff though. We trade various goods, making net overall purchases including a magnifying glass for Timo.

We consider leaving this afternoon, but Maireagh wants a bit more thinking time and to see some Dwarves for general social orientation / feeling. We end up down in Elder Barge / Cloud Forge district. We sit outside, on the barge; most eating fish, salad, ale, Maireagh has a meat roast boar etc. - a nice evening, when we actually can relax a while.

We know we need to head to the Grove & find the druid; and check one last time with Sildar and what he knows about Gundren. Does anyone else at all know where Cragmaw Castle is? We could ask around this evening maybe... Nethza just asks Elsa (of Elder Barge). Surely not easy to hide! Elsa points us towards certain silver mines, a rough direction, where a few people said they'd seen it; she offers to ask around, given an incentive... Timo has some jewellery from an earlier encounter to offer, which she accepts.

We spend a bit of time with Maireagh seeing her sister-in-law Koza Blackfinger, at Blackfinger Forge. We bring her up to date re Gundren, asking about mithril; perhaps a chain shirt. Some options there.

We head to the gardens and try our hand at a performance. Lute and horn, Nethza dancing, fairie fire (and Maireagh assists to extend the spell length), Timo does a silent image mirroring Nethza & uses the bag of tricks to get a dancing boar, etc. - lots of fun. We try to make the castle a focus of our made-up stories and songs, and do overhear some rumours; 2.5-4 days of walk in hills twd Longsaddle; old wizard's keep; Tevellaine might have a book with a picture of the original castle; ruined now; easy to spot if you know where to look etc. - some reasonable background info.

Thus, our way back to Elder Barge is diverted past the scrollkeeper (which of course is open, even if late). He describes it as the ruins of Old Phalorm, an old (before Orcs raided and devastated the area; from 800 to ending-by-Orcs 500yo ish) human kingdom. Finds a picture. On a hill, surrounded by a certain kind of tree - Riglan sees they look like needle pines. We don't know how accurate this is though. A castle made of 7 overlapping towers of various heights, 3-6 floors. Each except 1 caps out with crenellations, and 1 has a pointed roof. This is in its pre-ruined state, of course. Between Timo & Maireagh (latter proficient in history), they make a quick copy (Riglan pays 2gp so we're not just taking the piss by copying bits of books!).

Finally we return to Elder Barge to see if Elsa has anything. She seems enthusiastic. Outside at the barge again - weird warm weather, and all! She makes an ad hoc map from cheese paper and charcoal ("...I'm not fancy!", she says), 3 possible places all in the hills.

* As close as 2 nights rest away on foot, depending on navigation skills. Reports do say that it's ruined but not overgrown and on a hill; you can still see the towers; the hill it's on is not higher than those around, so you need to be on a hilltop to see it all... Or airborne.
* South of that, but further away (4 days).
* North, slightly closer than South but still further away than the 1st one (3 days).

She thinks it might be further away; that was the more common report, but then, at dwarf speed maybe that's 2-3 days for others.

We probably have enough to avoid going to Thundergrove Bastion, since that's in the wrong direction.

**Riglan dreams;** back at the temple, but in a different time. Not half orcs etc; Illefarn writing; old elven druids; a ritual, blessing armed, armoured elven warriors that ride off on elks, deer etc. into the vast forest, towards a distant fire that rages in it. Riglan's consciousness follows the riders. They ride to the aid of human knights defending a keep atop a hill from maurauding orcs, leading bugbears, hobgoblins, goblins and wolves, who are overwhelming them. Orcs are burning trees. Elves try to help both the forest and human allies. Leading the orcs is a strange creature, humanoid but unfamiliar, made of fire but not elemental. Unrecognised. It's large. Just seems to want to destroy. They want to break through to the keep, which humans and elves are desperate to prevent. "All will be in vain and the world will be set ablaze if we fail". One druid turns to *me* and asks for my help! Offers me a sickle or a staff as weapons. Given the fire - Riglan takes the sickle. "Sehanine be upon you", says the druid, blessing "me", the she runs into battle, with the staff - and Riglan just kind of stops dreaming / goes into a different kind of sleep. He remembers it in the morning though.

## DAY 17

Nethza notices Riglan seems "off" and they discuss the dream. Remnants of the Ilepharn empire still can be found in the High Forest; or indeed in woodlands here, which used to extend all the way to what's now the Evermoors. The *high* more was an older Ilepharn empire part which collapsed; the Evermoors maybe 1000 yo, so could be that long ago. There are Ilepharn ruins all along the Desarin & in the valley; perhaps it wasn't *this* temple, could be there?

We pack up and start to leave early. Timo says goodbye to Carp and we join him. Him and mother are in the fields. She hands us a sack of vegetables and fruit before we go! Hugs all round; Timo reminds Carp to have fun but look after his mum & do what she wants. He promises. The last we see is them heading back into the farm shop as Carp turns the sign around on the door - to "closed". Oops.

We pick up 2 small riding horses for Timo & Maireagh and Riglan finds a draft horse to carry stuff for him and Nethza, just to make things more comfortable.

We head out. The big horse says his name is **Birt**, with an "I". He doesn't mind if I ride him, but for now Riglan is happy walking. Riglan is surprised the horse can spell. The mules say they're **Telemachus** (male, with Temo) and **Andromache** (Ann-dromm-a-chee) (female, with Maireagh). The mules mention someone called Socrates a lot - Temo thinks it might be the donkey back at the steading.

It is once again unusually warm, almost sweltering; there is at least a dry wind, a bit like one felt on the way back from Old Owlbear Tower. Feels desert-like. Riglan and Temo discuss it but can't really figure it out (Nature check, both rolled 10) - it seems perhaps not entirely natural. When we voice this idea, Maireagh tries an arcana check (the group's highest, +6) but only gets 12, Nethza only got 11, Temo got 8, ridiculous! Heh, but Riglan (-1) rolls natural 19 for 18. He knows there's natural magic that can raise temperature in an area - feels 5 degrees warmer than we expect given everyone's assessment of location and time of year. It's almost like something has been burning the moisture out of the air, as if the air itself was on fire (yet it isn't).

Estimate half a day to get to the bridge, via the road.

En route a small group of dwarves and gnomes are walking the other way. Been mining silver ore, but not a good haul. Even had a cave in (but everyone's OK). They mention the weird weather in the hills - very cold until a month ago, and now very warm. They're off back to town to sell the ore.

We reach the river and take a break under some riverside willows. Riglan knows that the water is OK to drink even if not exactly great, so we refill and have apples, including the horses.

We make our way in the direction of the first, closest possible tower. It suddenly gets a lot cooler, and while sunny it's now a more normal, cooling wind and just generally much more tolerable. We get close to the base of the hills. We push on and get some exhaustion, but do get a good camping spot at the hill base near a small natural spring that emerges above ground for a brief distance before disappearing down underground again. It's shady. Riglan forages and finds food,  then they settle in.

(In view of hobgoblins and the like...) Watch order: Maireagh, Nethza, Temo (with goggles on) and Riglan last (when it's getting lighter again). Dog on guard always to give advantage.

## DAY 18

Riglan awakes with vague memories of a dream of time back in the woods, hunting, elven druids were running alongside (one rides a bear), rushing towards a distant burning part of the forest; one says to him, "Come, ride with the pack. Join the pack! Join the pack!" - he reaches out a hand; Riglan is racing to try and keep up as another druid calls upon forest fey spirits that Riglan is able to call upon; a deer appears; Riglan rides it, catching up with the pack.

As he thinks about his spells, Riglan's attention is drawn towards Summon Beast as a spell, which he doesn't know yet. He'll need expensive components to use it.

So we break camp and by just before midday we're up on a hill that *might* be close enough to see the first possible location. We can't line it up with Maireagh's drawing copied from the book. Riglan entices a magpie to help (some strips of the smoked deer help), and it can't match it either. It flies to ask a friend (!). Riglan forges for herbs in the mean time. Two magpies come back. More meat and more information - north west, it says. It warns of danger. They fly off.

So, we have only one left - the most likely position, we were told, at Elder Barge - looks like that was right. We stay down in the lower gully/valley areas looking for water etc., and stop a little early - about half four - having found basically a perfect spot. From here, there is less vegetation, so this is as good as spot as we're likely to find. Maireagh wants warm food so she sets up a fire and cooks a sort of stew. Temo reads. Riglan finds more herbs and with Maireagh, we create a healing potion.

Nethza just sort of keeps watch, meditating sort of. Riglan and her end up talking about her black crystal, which she says is the only thing that came from her mother - she just knows, even though she never met her mother. Her mother was mortally ill when carrying Nethza as a child. Riglan realises that Nethza is finally opening up a little. Temo talks a bit with her too, and says all the right things; she opens up more. Nethza knows that her mother made a deal with an avatar of Levistus, to spare her. An arch devil from one of the nine hells - imprisoned in ice - a very clever trickster, who can only influence the world around him via agents and avatars. He wanted to escape imprisonment, so in exchange he got Nethza's mother (Nethza was told all this by a warlock) to agree to letting him possess her for the duration. And that's why Nethza is a tiefling, despite both parents being human. Her father, of whom she may have a very faint memory, as horrified; he made a pact with a powerful warlock to save his wife and, though this may or may not be true, the warlock repeatedly told Nethza that she was offered to the warlock in exchange. This caused a struggle between two great powers of magic; Nethza was born prematurely and her mother did not survive. Her soul was ripped from her body. Her father couldn't deal and dropped Nethza off at an orphange where she grew up. (**A PALER SKY, ENO**).

She pulls out a book that we've not seen before, in an odd Sylvan; a dark fey of sorts. "The book of the Raven Queen". Shaowfell, then; the dark mirror of the fey wild. Balance. Nethza says that the warlock traded her to his patron, to save himself in the battle with the demo, binding Nethza to his patron against her will. She didn't choose to be a tiefling, to have her mother die, to be abandoned or to be bound in a pact with whatever the power is that she is now bound to. She's not blaming anyone, but has been doubly cursed nonetheless. She moves from place to place so much while trying to find joy if she can, because if she stays one place too long, locals always suspect a tiefling when things go wrong, especially one with warlock powers from an unknown entity. So, she draws her power from this crystal, which was her mothers but probably didn't look like that originally. It's a symbol of power, not a source.

Same watch, though Riglan is a bit shit (rolls 2 and 2 with advantage! -> 8) so he's just asleep by morning.

## DAY 19

Riglan is woken by Maireagh, who's understandably upset. We pack up and head out. We move out of the wooded hills and into the higher mesas and so-on with scrub. The weird hot weather and dry air is back again.

We rest just before moving into the drylands at around midday, then push out into the drier, higher land. Sandier, rockier soil, cracked clay, sandstones etc.; we reach an area with canyons, definitely drier than before. A distinct geography change. Some stands of trees here and there but sparse. The canyon areas cause us some confusion and diversions. Riglan sends up a wild companion hawk. It's kind of a maze of smaller gulleys; if we don't mind risking being seen, we should just climb onto the plateaus. After almost an hour in flight, more than half a day's march away, is something that does start to look familiar from the drawings. At least we know we can use the plateaus for a while without being seen.

The bird dissipates, and we head up to the plateau. We set up camp there for security, but not light any fires. Rock formations let us bunker down with the tents. There's no water though. We have about 1.5 days each in waterskins usually, and have drunk 0.5 days worth, so Maireagh is able to cast Create Water & refill them before we long-rest, along with another spell slot to fill a bucket.

A giant owl (!) speaks to Riglan while he's on watch. It warns us of hobgoblins and an evil wolf, along with maybe a bugbear and goblins. Red cloak people were there for a couple of days but left. A strange creature visited last night, but the owl doesn't know what it was. It looked like many different things and felt unnatural. It asks for a mouse, but all Riglan has is venison - and in response offers him a ride on its back to look at the castle! It's dim light but he can see that it's a true ruin, with perhaps one habitable floor. Maybe 3 ways to approach - grand stairs up to a big front entrance on the west side, a side path that weaves up the hill that goes to the castle's south side or one leading to a collapsed crumbled area on the northern side. People have come in and out from there and the southern bit sometimes too; but only the red cape humans used the main entrance.

## DAY 20

Break camp, refill water from a bucket Maireagh filled last night. So, we're full up, having drunk our fill. Riglan still has a strong idea of where to go from the hawk yesterday and we head that way. People are little incredulous when I tell them about the giant owl! Riglan tells them everything that happened.

We're going to head around with as much cover as we can find and approach on the North exit. This takes a while; it's around 2:30pm by the time we're making the final approach from the North. From that viewpoint, we realise that the picture we have was drawn from the West, but people from Deepgarden would be always seeing it from (roughly) East. We can just about make out the 7 overlapping towers, but about 80% of the castle has crumbled. Towers to the left and right have intact ground floors but the bigger central towers are fully gone. From placement of arrow slits etc., we reckon the bottom floor is still pretty tall - 15-25ft variable, at a guess. The remaining path is about 500ft long, covering about a 200ft climb, with another 500ft between us and the path start (so 1000ft total).

Find Familiar -> Spider. Sees 2 hobgoblins on patrol; escapes to a room with a big wolf, old bugbear and drow arguing over a dwarf unconscious in the corner; spider moves to a mess hall full of goblins; runs from a hobgoblin via some strange canvas doors and is outside, heading back. We disguise ourselves in the red cloaks; Temo uses silent image to disguise dog as wolf; I use Disguise Self to look like a red cloak too. We head in via the canvas door. There's another one, or a big heavy locked door; we stealth through that, via Temo and mage hand. A small chamber, with another canvas door; and a solid door with arguing behind. OK, so that's the bugbear room. We stride in and try to bluff it - pretend we've escaped the town.

The king doesn't go for it. Calls for guards. Drow moves strangely, kind of melting between places, and stands in front of the dwarf; Temo has one more go, but it doesn't work. Pisses king right off... Things escalate, as they often do, rapidly and in the absence of a better plan - battle time. And this one's going to be very, very sketchy. (Bugbear is King Groll - ruler of the Cragmaw Clans for a decade).

The drow turns out to be a doppelganger. We fight the wolf, drow, king, and by the end 3 hobgoblin guards that are coming to the king's aid. The drow constantly threatens to kill Gundren but Maireagh on a 2nd attempt manages to get lightning lure to pull him away. We do prevail and Gundren is rescued. We take a rest, not finding actually all that much in the room; we realise that with the king gone, the rest of the castle's denizens will probably flee. Riglan hears Nethza suggest maybe cutting off his head - grisly but not a bad idea really! - instead he decides to wear the crown. After a short rest, we head out. Gundren has his map to the cave - it turns out that this was what the king was arguing with the not-drow about. Gundren elects to lock himself in the king's room to rest while we explore the rest of the ruins, with a "special knock" to let him know it's us.

We check a 2nd room that hobgoblins came from - that's the watch room that the spider saw. So instead we head out back the way we came, then head through the canvas door to get to the "mess hall". In between the two canvas doors that the spider saw, there are actually doors on either side of the corridor. We take the right hand door, as we face with our backs to the way we entered (faces towards the mess hall). (Trap checks as usual - none). It's a long thin room with some kind of religious use; but we don't recognise any of the iconography. The far end is terminated by a curtain; there are voices beyond it. We stride in! A very large chamber, altar, ritual implements, sacrifice evidence, some big archways, 3 armoured goblins with ornate but filthy robes, kneeling before the altar. There is a brief conversation; they can't leave, as their god is embodied here. They ask us to leave; we sense they are kind of independent; so, we leave; they're no harm to us.

On the opposite corridor side we find empty barracks, a storeroom and another door which *might* connect back towards the mess hall. This door is locked and barred on the outside. Scary. Fuck it - we lift the bars. We stand WELL back and Temo unlocks it with mage hand and turns the handle. The door flings wide open! Crashing out of the room is a 12ft tall feathery bear with an owl's face. It's enraged - wide eyed and freaked out. It's not a beast, so Riglan can't talk to it. It's a wild animal. He throws it two rations of wild venison, and casts Healing Word. Between all of us, it's enough to get sufficient trust and it doesn't attack. It runs out - we're expecting it to leave - but it went the wrong way to the mess hall! We give chase hearing all the commotion, and when we get there, the goblins have been laid waste. The cook goblin in particular is one that the owlbear seems to particularly hate - it goes for him. Other goblins escape. They're shouting, and we don't speak goblin but it sounds a bit like (via Sylvan) - they're shouting about the owlbear over, something something. The owlbear breaks down a door and runs away from the castle.

We return to the owlbear room from earlier. It's actually a tower. There are parts of the second floor above us but no stairs. We investigate the floor we're on. It seems to be part workshop, part library - or once was, anyway - for a wizard. Empty bookshelves, smashed chairs and tables... Once again we can't figure it out really. Maireagh recognises the stonework as old Phalorm. Roughly the last time the elves & dwarves worked together with humans. More than 500 years ago.

Riglan gives Temo a boost up onto the ledge! It fails. We fall. TWO MORE times we fail - successively lower rolls (below 7!) causes enough damage that Riglan gives up, wildshapes into a giant spider, climbs up, finds a chest, turns into himself, ties on a rope. It's not a good knot tho and gives up half way through. The chest falls. It bursts open - 2 scrolls, potion of healing and coin. Riglan jumps down, nat 1, 6 damage. Nethza can't read the scrolls. Maireagh looks. She has some idea; but isn't so sure. Temo recognises it as a silence spell.

We go back to the mess hall to continue investigating. We come around to the south western tower; barracks and a guard room. Heading north through the grand foyer, we get to another guard post and a store room. It's a weird mix of very new and very old food, way more than we'd expect for the goblins. Insignia on some things - e.g. Lion Shield Coster, and others that we don't recognise. There's a bloody chainmail and an ornate longsword. Temo recognises the emblem on the hilt before; one on each side; he's seen those on Sildar. We sold the other greatsword to Coster because Sildar had been trying to buy one - he'd lost his - this must be it. We take both the suit of chainmail and the sword, also finding and taking a heavy crossbow we think might be his. Maireagh smells something unusual! Picks up a small cask - finest, rare dwarven *brandy*. At least a decade old. Three hobgoblins emerge from one last door - wondering "what is left holding the Cragmaws together?" - and they tell us that the castle will be a battleground for control of the castle. So, a hobgoblin place? We let them pack their things and leave, at their request. They also take the two bags of fresh food. "Do not trust Lupo - he is a death worshiper". He's talking about the church priest. They also warn that a patrol is due back any time.

On our way back we decide to head back through the back end of the church, but trigger a trap on the side we haven't entered yet. Temo is OK but Riglan cops it a bit.

We head into the antechamber and are horrified to see the priest and two acolytes, and a giant worm with a split head. Shit. He says "Maglubiyet demands a sacrifice!". We see it drop down - it was hiding in the ceiling - THAT is what freaked out the spider. Battle! (And we're a bit low on HP and a lot low on spells).

Lots of low rolls, but from *both* sides. The goblins aren't that hardy and the grick does OK but it's still not enough with the five of us, including the dog, and it takes a while but we do take them all down. The priest was very concerned with not letting us near the altar, so now, we take a very close look at it, along with some things he'd been grabbing from it in his final moments.

Having seen the grick, now we can take a closer look at the shrine. It wasn't for this creature originally; it's been defaced for the "new" god. A pantheon of good gods before, apparently; pantheon of angels at the top; gods carrying books, scrolls and a large eye under. Gods of knowledge perhaps. There's a golden chalice (empty), a knife and a censer (incense burns in it, or whatever, the kind of elongated globe thing) that the priest was trying to take, but these are not goblin made, they're very high quality human made. They're *pure* gold and worth a lot. The knife and chalice may have been art objects once. The censer is definitely religious.

We don't hang around. We get Gundren and get back to the horses. Draft horse gets the brandy cask. On the way home, we do well for a while, then get lost (!), then finally get back to the spring and pool that goes back underground where we camped before. So we camp again.

**L4 overnight**.

## DAY 21

A windy day, the same weird wind as before but not as hot. We get to the bridge easily, with the road there; cross the river and come off the road to find a place to camp. Rolling low almost-hills here. We camp on the banks. Riglan calls some wolves with Summon Lesser Animals, and chats to explain the spell and help give insight into what they perceived too.

Watch is uneventful.

## DAY 22

We pack up, leave and get to Deepgarden via the gate into the old city. We get there about 2:30pm. (Ivy Crest area). We do some exchanges at the Font of Fancy, and take the censer to the temple but its value makes them nervous - they find that an expensive object can "invite trouble". It's the (quite young) Sister Garaele. We realise that the place is quite spartan. She wears, tho, a small gold and silver pin. Temo and Maireagh recognise it - crescent moon with a harp in the middle. Temo's about to shout out what it is, but Maireagh kicks him! Secret, I guess? Anyway, she says it is an "all faiths" temple; she personally believes in Temorah. Same as Temo. She heads away a bit, and comes back with a letter she's stamped, telling us to deliver it to Yartar (!) along with the Censer. It's much safer there.

Finally we head to the Grand Marshal's hall to return Sildar's stuff, and let Gundren speak to him. Maireagh explains about the pin on the way - they're the Harpers.

Sildar is delighted to get the sword back - had been in his family almost 300 years - but let us keep the rest. He's also delighted to see Gundren safe and well. He's also heard back from Yartar about the Owlbear Tower archaeological rights. He hands a scroll to Maireagh and they have a rather cryptic convo and say we'll "sort it out later", so we have to wait & see on that one.

Gundren and Sildar now get down to business. He'd approached Sildar as his brothers (still missing!) and he had found Wave Echo Cave and were going to reopen the mine. Sildar was authorised by the Lords Alliance (although Sildar works for the Water Barron of Yartar) along with a council that'd been convened to dispatch the Cult Of The Dragon (...!) because they'd started a fund to try and restore magic items since many were lost/destroyed. It leaves the Sword Coast a bit weaker and exposed. Theoretically, the ore at the Cave - and especially the Forge Of Spells if active - would greatly speed it up. (Out of game - Gnog's campaign - making your own is a lot cheaper than buying them from Thay! The Sword Coast got *none* of its magic items back from the Hoard, too, as an arrangement with the Metallics council). Sildar agrees to Gundren's price (we don't see it, but it's very high).

Gundren gives us 100gp for rescuing him. He says we'll have 10% of the profits from the mine if we help and we are all successful - that includes the Etherium. Maireagh is VERY keen.

Riglan asks is any of this might help forests be cut down less! Sildar points out that it might not be direct, but magic items can reduce the need for physical space for firewood, even food/farm and so-on. He also points out that some druid circles who use magic items too. Tells me to talk to the Emerald Enclave (and explains who that is). He recommends I talk to the local druid for that.

Next stop is Koza. Gundren, Maireagh and Riglan stay there to figure out Riglan's gilded acorn, while Nethza and Temo head to Alsweir Steading to a warm reception by Carp! Even Nethza manages to relax a bit around him. Temo finds Qelline and we can, in fact, get the cottage room again for the next four nights (Gundren thinks he can find a crew and leave on the 4th day; Maireagh and Koza think they can get the acorn done in a similar time). Temo had taken the draft horse along and unloaded the cask of brandy. Nethza pays for the rooms. They return (with horse) the forge, where the two mules are also tied up outside for now.

Riglan has described his curious gilded acorn idea while they were away. This uses 2 of the gold bars from trade earlier. Maireagh and Koza will work together a (dwarven!) day (it's about 4pm now) to sort out the cast. So they get onto that. She doesn't need anything, except asks us to bring a bit of food/drink if we're getting any ourselves.

Riglan wants to ask the Scrollkeeper about communication at a distance. Nethza wanted to talk to him too, for arcane/occult information; knowledge about things that are lost to time. The Scrollkeeper has some idea of books for her, but that's probably not quite what she needs. Riglan digs deeper. Arcane is study of magic itself (go to arcane researchers or academies) - it would take a long time and you'd have to be there while study proceeded. The other side; occult, or beings that are a source of power; that's not arcane. It could be divine, infernal, natural (wild magic), extra-planar, inter-dimensional... It depends. Academies *might* be able to run tests. Such information tends to be controlled by powerful organisations that often aren't benevolent.

Riglan determines that the Scrollkeeper is a bit out of his depth and is mostly offering opinion. The organisations he describes as heresay. He at least writes down the names of some arcane academies - Academy Of Warmages of Cormir, Wizard's Tower (Grand Academy) of Silverymoon, Great Library of Candlekeep and Private Academy of Blackstaff Tower in Waterdeep. Baldur's gate has one, too. Yartar has a small academy and library but it's more a mercantile city rather than academic. Silverymoon would be closer.

He does then suddenly mention an outlier possibility - may not be useful, but - in the High Forest, there is the Emerald Enclave's "The Conclave". They don't usually maintain permanent structures but they have a tower. Not sure of name. It's not a headquarters, really, but certainly a centre of knowledge and accumulation of wisdom.

He has a book that talks about different academies of knowledge. It's a bit of a marketing pamphlet really! Collected, into a folder/tome. 1gp. It does at least tell us people, how to gain entry, what they specialise in etc. - worth 1gp.

Riglan now asks about communication etc. - there are two scrolls offered. One is a scroll of Message. 120ft, same as Riglan's existing capability. Then he shows me Animal Messenger. Tell it the recipient, then over 24h (flying creatures could cover 50 miles) it'll deliver the message in your voice (90gp). Then he realises there's a third option, but he only has one copy of this. Riglan doesn't understand it. It is powerful and has no range limit - just an alive person, on this plane. It's a Scroll of Sending. 25 words or less, to a creater we're familiar with. They can answer immediately. Nethza can't read it either, but Temo can; however, it'd be quite a low chance (technically L3 spell). Price would be 135gp.

We think about it. Random next chore, drop off horses at Vermillion Stables. We notice on the way past that H&I is much changed! Cheerful, people outside, a little market nearby. There is a performance space! Oooh. This feels like a caravan area. Not a thoroughfare - wrong highways - but at least a restock area. The river silt has meant that the southward inner side of the curve isn't so good for deep barges etc., so they tend to park up on the northern shore instead. (Stable horses: One large pen for draft horse & two mules. Per day, 5sp; so 2gp, including feed).

We head to Elder Barge. Gundren asks for the most visible table to maximise talking and starts scheming things with Elsa. He offers to pay for dinner! Yay. Elsa and Toblen come along with lots of ale after the food, too. Gundren has bought ale for everyone. He starts launching loudly into stories, history of the area, trying to stir a sense of town pride & ownership. It works only for some. The majority of the workers, though, aren't from the area - they've come seeking riches in the mines. The stalwarts, though, including a fair few younger folk, do rise to it. Elsa and Toblen aren't from the area, but play along. Gundren asks, who amongst the crowd know the reason why the town exists - launches into Deepgarden Keep's story. The name isn't from the garden that was planted later; it's named after the ancient Deepgarden pact between dwarves and gnomes who discovered and worked at the Forge of Spells, mining Wave Echo Cave. The pact went beyond the 'deep' part (dwarves), 'garden' (gnomes) - also with human waves that helped channel energies from the cave into the forge - and also with elves in surrounding areas, promising to not clash; not chopping down any forests to fuel the keep. That's why the town walls are stone along with buildings, not wood. The garden planted in the old mine was planted as part of that agreement. Over time, the empire Phalorm & remnants of Ilefarn collapsed and withered. Humans moved in & much forest was chopped down. Few elves were there to protect it or negotiate. Foul magics were being used (we don't know what they are, tho Gnog would! - it's how Evermoors were created).

He urges people to renew the pact. Reopen the Cave and reestablish the Forge. Huge opportunity; enough once to create the finest Keep and fortified city at this location, between Nesmay-as-was and the old keeps of the South; between Mirabar and Silverymoon. Predates Yartar and Triboar.

He says he needs two things - hard workers on the promise of a great wealth of magic ore; people who can build, make safe, restore the mines and guard them. And then he points to us and tells the story of what we've done (awkward!) and that we'll be coming along; wants a dozen able-bodied fighters initially to guard it until it's fully secured. Toblen and Elsa will take names over the next few days. Four nights to decide, he says; he departs on the fifth day.

There is Q&A and we are left at peace on the table with food & ale while Gundren deals with it. Fresh caught fish, summer salads, honeyed cake, some bread and cheese and chilled ale. We pack for Maireagh, obviously. Temo does a good job with that.

So we discuss "what next". There is the druid at Thundergrove Bastion; the Orc problems; or, hell, just downtime! (I roll a D6 on my own criteria and determine downtime via Dice Gods). So, downtime.

First, we're back at the forge to give Maireagh her food etc. & catch up. We ask about the scroll Sildar gave her re. Owlbear Tower.

We could try crafting, sowing rumours, selling or buying magic items; crime/scams; entertain ourselves via gambling, pit fighting, pure relaxation etc., religious services, research into the arcane; scribe (write) spell scrolls; reading to learn skills; training. We have 5 days.

## DAY 23-26

Riglan has a bit of a shopping list:

* Collect bugs, dead mice, whatever.
* More smoked meats.
* Apples.
* More medicinal herbs.

* Temo helps Nethza with research -> it's very specific, hidden info she needs; we will need an academy and/or major city. Yartar might offer some further clues, but wouldn't have enough on its own (though we can do better research there if we have time).
* Maireagh crafts.
* Riglan asks around about Emerald Enclave (Reidoth, the druid at Thundergrove, is the contact).
* Riglan's history-of-races book.

At the end of this, Nethza's amulet has been properly forged; her Shaowfell shard is converted into a magic item, Dark Shard Amulet on a silver chain with the shard clasped to it. Riglan has his gilded acorn along with some bits and bobs. Temo and he have a bit more reading. Nethza figures out that it's most likely to be all about the Shaowfell and Raven Queen for her. So, she gets a relevant book from the Scrollkeeper, about the "Ancient Three" - three goddesses considered to be the primordial representation of three aspects of life and fate. The Daughter / Maiden: Elven, Sehanine Moonbow, goddess of the moon, love and autumn; sister of Loth, goddess of the Drow (Loth was once one of the Elven goddesses before she went to the side of dark) - linked to the Fey. Mother: The Matron, Milorah, goddess of the wilderness and primordial sea - linked to the Prime Material Plain and Elemental. Finally the Crone, or Deathless Queen, AKA Raven Queen, goddess of fate, winter and the next realm - linked to the Shaowfell. She thinks her patron might be the Raven Queen - but she never talks to or influences the Prime Material Plane directly, only via the Shadar-Kai.

On the last day while randomly perusing the Scrollkeeper shop, Riglan comes across an interesting book - "The Practical Herbalist's Guide To The Sword Coast", 25gp. It is a reference book, doesn't need reading. Owning it would in essence give a nature book when searching for or identifying nature checks (gives Expertise basically).

## DAY 27

Gundren has his dozen people, carts, mules etc.; a 2 day journey to the mine. He's got a large greataxe and is wearing plate. We say goodbye at the Steading and pick up our horses. Just before we leave, we get flagged down by Sildar, who gives us a prep talk :-/ about how important it is to try and regain control of the mine if the Black Spider is there currently. He's found that there may be a connection between Black Spider & slavers who work with the Zhentarim. Maireagh understandably bristles at this. He says he has transferred mage Iarno to a bigger, safer location as he caught someone trying to free the mage & suspects also the Zhentarim here. Whether or not they're working with the Black Spider in any way (tho he thinks not), the Zhentarim are certainly very interested in the mine. "Be vigilant, watch the shadows, make sure you trust the people you're with" - he'll do the same in town.

We head off.
