# Riglan: Part 2

...we're on day 12, headed to Byreby Weir Traders (Lion Shield Costa). We're looking for Linene Greywind. Get directed to office. It takes a while to convince her we're not scammers, but she does believe us eventually. It is sad to convey that the caravan people probably died. Hands us 50gp, either way. She's more concerned about the people and their families, and is aligned in a similar manner to us when it comes to the Redsashes. They won't trade with H&I, but they'll always trade with us.

We sell our weapons there, actually, and find out prices on armour for Maireagh. We're directed to market hall for sheet metal or similar parts, or Cloudforge district perhaps; Font of Fancy for gems. We keep the statuette. Maireagh asks Temo to try market hall (Riglan will go along, but casts Disguise Self for colour - tall half orc, about 7.5ft) with a shopping list. Temo investigates inside - Nat 20! - finds exactly what he needs, quickly, at a good price (dirty 24 persuasion). 2.5gp.

On the way back to the farm we catch up with Nethza - she's been watching us from shadows. Tells us she's staying at Old Barrow Inn but probably has to skip town. We say we'll catch up with there later tonight - she can't come with us as we have to cross the bridge and she can't hide anywhere there. There's talk of magic, and spells are compared; Temo watches and listens intently.

The food that Laycie has cooked is great! She's going to sleep under an oak tree in the field near the farmhouse.

We go to Old Barrow Inn. Trilena leads us up to Nethza's room. We chat a while; we realise that Nethza definitely can't stay here, but we do want to try and get hold of her again later. So, we think about Daran & Berit's place and go there. About 10pm. They aren't asleep. We persuade them to take in Nethza, and head back to town.

As Riglan beds down, he notices Temo and Maireagh talking quietly, focused on the page of spells of Temo's that he once showed Riglan. Temo seems excited. Riglan drifts off into a disturbed sleep, torn between his feelings of affection and the warmth of the common ground he finds with Laycie, against the feelings of injustice and the draw to new experiences with Nethza. We could travel as a larger group, but it seems like we'd draw too much attention.

Perhaps he already made his choice, by helping Nethza to the farmhouse out of town?

DAY 13

The dawn comes, concluding the party's 2nd night in Deepgarden. Riglan awakes a little groggy, but suddenly struck by how much seems to have happened in the last week or so, compared to his past 100 years in the forest; it's an almost overwhelming blur, a kaleidoscope of people and places and experiences. He wonders how he might ever remember it all, and resolves to get himself paper and ink so that he can make a journal.

We need to go to Font of Fancy to exchange gems and catch up with Sildar, hoping for information on Cragmaw Castle. We'll have to collect Nethza whenever we next head out and must remember to check out Old Owlbear Tower as promised to Daran and Berit. First, though, Laycie. Very early - 6am. She's wandering around in the orchard. Riglan has a brief chat, and she asks about the Redbrands so Riglan tells her all he knows. She doesn't have a good feeling about the place; seems like the wrong time for her to be here. They part amicably; she heads to the road.

Riglan is heading back to the room when the farmer (halfling Qelline) comes in to check - we only paid for two nights! - so we pay her for a couple more (2sp per night). Her child Carp is wandering around as I start to return, looking a bit frantic; he runs into a building. Riglan is confused and follows. The kid is looking very upset but Riglan doesn't know why (nat 1 insight!) - he's sat in the corner of a storeroom. Riglan tries to find out what's happened. Persuasion nat 19 (minus 1) - he says he's frightened but he'll be fine, and runs out. Riglan makes haste back to the room, where Temo is outside because Maireagh is making something and it's very noisy! He asks me to come with to find Carp. 

We find Qelline crouched on a stool outside her house, dressing a wound on Carp - he has various scrapes around his wrist. Temo asks if everything is OK. Carp insists he was just playing around when asked; it doesn't sound convincing; Temo tries to understand, but figures out that Carp doesn't want to get grounded. Temo convinces Qelline to let us look after Carp for a while. We head with Carp over to the cottage, pretending to be excited about Maireagh's creation; Temo convinces Carp to explain what he's up to. He thinks mum doesn't trust him, but he's brave! He likes playing in the mine, in the morning; there are plants down there and bugs that glow and it's fun. He sneaks out early. He found a secret tunnel a while ago on the 2nd level down, behind some glowing trees; but today two ugly bandits - Redbrands? - came down and grabbed at his hand and he sneaked away. He's very afraid that they saw him and they'll trace it back to the farm. He watched for a bit and two more came down, then all went back into the tunnel. He has a scrap of material - something that snagged on him as he ran - it's red. We take the scrap.

(He mentions a druid - Reidroth - who went to the woods but never came back. Mum used to be an adventurer.)

Temo is worried about how rash this kid is, but sees himself in the child. Riglan notices this. Riglan says to Carp that he should focus less on daggers (he keeps asking for them!) and on his evident speed and stealth. Temo hides to prove the point, Carp chases around a bit and just when Riglan's about to lose his mind all the noise from inside suddenly stops - Maireagh's finished doing her... Whatever it is. It catches all of our attention. Riglan knocks on the door and the three of us enter.

There's some kind of strange metal warrior there, as big as Maireagh herself!

She calls it "version 1" of her automaton project. It's stone and metal, all worked into some kind of creature. The original looked more like a metal dog, but she didn't have that many parts; so this is the best she can do for now. Two slabs of stone either side, as if both arms wore stone shields. She commands it, and it obeys. In the centre of its chest is a piece of ore - we recognise it from the Forge, as that magic ore from the Wave Echo Cave (allegedly). Carp's losing his shit, but Maireagh explains how many years it takes to study and learn something like this. Anyway, at least we're keeping him entertained (!).

Later, Carp's mum picks him up. We talk about Cragmaw & she's adamant that Reidroth would know where it is... One night, when drunk, he also boasted that he knows where Wave Echo Cave is. Reidroth headed out to Thundergrove Bastion, some old ruins which used to be an outpost (Bastion) town; the boundary between the world of the humans and the world of the elves. An elven forest was there, long gone. (She gives us directions, but asks for us to let her know before we head out - she might make some things for him - NB it's a good 3 days / 2 nights, depending on when you leave, travel).

We hang around a little killing time, then Riglan goes to find his notebook at Tevellaine Scrollkeeper. Incidentally, that's where the job board said to find Sildar - tho we already found him, at the Bugbear's den. We get there and there's a gold elf - golden skin - male. It's quite narrow inside, but wider outside, so we assume storerooms either side. 3 storey. After Maireagh explains what her robot is all about given he expresses interest, he describes a "Winter Woods Clan" of Firbolgs and asks Riglan if that's his clan. It's in the wrong place, but Riglan remembers that his clan moved a few hundred years ago. This guy remembers. He spent some time with a Firbolg and met a wanderer from our clan many years ago. 

Riglan buys his journal and pen. We also find out that a scroll of teleportation is 5000gp (!) and even a history book is about 25gp.

Tevellaine tells us more about the job - it's to find an associate of his who has gone missing - Iarno Albrek. Sildar set the job up and thinks Iarno visited Deepgarden, but Iarno is a wizard and would surely have visited the scrollkeeper on arrival - they always want to know more spells - yet he did not. So, Tevellaine is sceptical. He was sent by the Lords Alliance on official business nonetheless. It was about 3 months ago, and Riglan asks if it was a war issue maybe, but Tevellaine doesn't think so. The Redbrand, coincidentally, have been around a similar amount of time.

Anyway - 100gp is up for grabs.

Tevellaine hands us the job letter since he hasn't been able to get anyone to take it, asking us give it back to Sildar. On the subject of whether or not all this stuff is connected, he says - "Sometimes, a toadstool on a rock and a missing cat are just a toadstool on a rock and a missing cat".

We head to Font of Fancy. Riglan disguises himself with better clothes after being told he can't come in! We go to see the jeweller. He tries to fob us off for 400gp. Maireagh gets a bit intimidating, but Temo tries the charm (nat 17 -> 25 persuasion). He goes up to the 500gp we agreed (offered as a gold bar). This done, we go back to the entry (receiption) area and ask about Sildar. We agree to have breakfast with him at the restaurant there. Of course, it's very expensive. Temo and Riglan splash out (2.5gp each!) but Maireagh declines - doesn't want to waste money... The food is certainly good, if a little fancy.

Sildar gives us a reward - 5 platinum! Very generous. We thank him. Maireagh joins in with breakfast suddenly...! She's particularly interested in the teas. Riglan and Sildar get down to business - he's a Lords Alliance rep., travelled from Yartar, representing Neverwinter. He was sent here for two reasons - first, he's not the first to be sent as an emissary and that was Iarno, to try and secure Deepgarden Keep's cooperation with the Alliance because of the rumours that the Brothers had found Wave Echo Cave. There are legends of a powerful spell forge in there; Alliance wants to secure it and reopen the mine, making it safe, to gain access. Iarno simply went missing, but he'd send a message that he was on his way to Deepgarden & expected to arrive the next day. One person does claim to have seen him in the city, one of the guards - and he went missing too. Sildar is keen to take on the Marshal and reinstate order - Riglan recommends caution.

We convince him to perhaps wait, seeking refuge in Yartar perhaps for safety, and return in around a month when we've had the chance to investigate more on our side, re. Gundren. We'll send a message if we find anything out, but it'll take him two weeks to return from Yartar.

On a whim, after leaving we go visit the marshal to see what we can glean. We talk to him a while and Maireagh determines that he's under the control of the Redbrands, or in cahoots. She thinks there's more urgency and Sildar should act now. It could be weeks before we're back otherwise and who knows what could happen. Returning to Sildar at Font, we convey this and offer assistance to him in taking back control. He offers 200gp - we accept. Payment on completion!

We have no idea where to start, really, but the only recent new thing was from Carp - the old mine. First, we should fetch Nethza. She'll come along to help out, but isn't really into adventuring - she has other plans really. But she is aligned with what we're trying to do. She has a heavy cloak, so we can get her in without too much trouble. 

We get down into the garden / mine and find the tunnel; it has a slight climbing gradient and is long. Occasional alcoves or similar off to the side; a collapsed fork to the left; Riglan has wild-shaped to a cave badger for darksight, but Temo near the back is forced to use a light which makes stealth difficult. Riglan hears sounds up ahead, but the tunnel has a lot of echoing and noise travels far. There is a breeze from ahead and the smell of something decaying. After a while, the sounds ahead stop and we wait for a while but they don't resume. We continue and enter a large cavern eventually.

Directly ahead at the end of the tunnel there's a bit of ground at the cavern's edge, with a bridge crossing left to right and another beyond. They're short, spanning a crevasse dividing the cavern, stretching away from us on the right hand side, as far as Riglan can make out away (at least 60ft). We're kind of on a ledge, then, next to it. Some rock pillars here and there - natural. About 20ft high ceiling. Fully dark. There's *something* on the wall on our side (left) but it's too far to see. I guess we have to move forward to investigate it. A short corridor with stairs that descend about 10ft. The opposite wall has a less deep ledge and cavern wall. There's some kind of hard to see man made tunnel or hall there - it's on both sides of the chasm, then. The rotting smell is coming from the chasm. To get a feel for it, we move onwards along the "left hand" ledge.

Riglan can't see anyone, but is pretty sure that we're not alone. The chasm heads into a wall, disappearing, tunnel-like. There's another left hand paved tunnel. On the right, over the bridge, though, is some kind of larger room. Riglan leads over the far bridge, curious about that room. He's still in cave badger form so can't speak to communicate his intentions; for now, the others are just following. Before he crosses tho his tremorsense notices that there's something scurrying around and it has this same dead smell. It's behind the pillar. Something tries to charm us...

Temo notices and resists. Something is badly amiss. Temo says that there's something bad happening. Riglan, hearing this and not feeling anything himself but trusting Temo, squeals loudly and pounces since he thinks he knows where it is; and Nethza conjures her shadow flail. Riglan's pounce finds no purchase. Nethza moves forward, conjuring armour too. Finally, Riglan can make it out - a strange, misshapen, spindly humanoid form. One massive eye where its head would be. It's NOT pretty, and it's in our heads. It wants secrets. Battle!

(Temo sees it - a Nothic, often in abandoned arcane sites; underdark creatures. Not born this way. Highly intelligent.)

The battle's rough and we don't manage to negotiate, but do survive and defeat it. We have a short rest as Temo's quite fucked up. Maireagh takes the smell pyramid and changes it into a light on a string and finds a lair about 20ft down the crevasse. Temo can climb down, doesn't notice much (poor investigation) but it feels "off" and he can't place it. Riglan comes down; detect magic; a vague necromantic innate haze, from much deeper in the crevasse; it slows rotting etc. in this area, full of dead things that the creature was eating.

There's one particular body that looks freshly dead but given the above is not. Temo finds some wood carver's tools; a human male, contemporary clothing, a workman. It's the murdered guy. No sign of his family though. The rest are animals that were hunted or killed; the Nothic is being fed. Perhaps that's why it lets the Redbrands pass. Riglan investigates an area of stronger magic - a wooden chest is uncovered, closed but not locked. All kinds of magic. We stand back and Temo opens it with mage hand, for caution. It's a treasure chest gathered by the Nothic! Weird. Many coins, some gems, 2 potions, a magic scroll and a longsword, inscribed "Talon". Climbing back out, Maireagh recognises (history check 21) the Talon sword. Belonged to Aldith Tresenda Deepgarden (!), a knight, once lord of the keep a very long time ago. Died fighting off orcs that sacked the town once. Legend has it that they stormed the keep from *within* which is how they defeated the town. We think this was their access.

We go to the big open room at the far end of the cavern. Lots of barrels and crates, straw, pry bars etc.- then Riglan notices that two of the stone wall blocks don't look right. Temo investigates. He pushes them and secret doors are revealed! We take a quick moment and find out that the crates etc are more supplies; food, building supplies, beaver pelts that look very valuable - 30 of them - and more. Some have **Lion Shield Costa insignia**. We take the 30 pelts in Maireagh's bag which were in an unmarked crate. 

The two secret passages have dim light beyond. We head down one that would lead back in the direction of the left hand wall we'd originally followed, but it turns, goes down long stairs and reaches a wall. Temo stops us - he notices light around the edge of the stone. Another secret door. He can hear things beyond - a voice, sounds male, frustrated, as though talking to itself. Can't trust anyone, must be a traitor in their midst, things not going as planned. Riglan goes back, thinking he might leave it for now but changes his mind; we gather together and prepare to get into the room.

Temo can open the door. Temo, Riglan, Nethza; Maireagh and Defender as rear guard near top of stairs. Temo opens the door.

There's a wizard in a small room. He's surprised. Temo tries bluffing; introduces himself. We make out that we're here by accident. He says it's just his quarters - a study. Says he's not with the redbadges, but he lets us into the room where they are... So we go in...

Rather inevitably, another battle. 9 men plus the wizard himself. Yikes!

Takes a while, but we do it. Investigations: Wizard has a journal with alchemical journal. Describes in Dwarvish an adventurer named Urmon, and talks of Wave Echo Cave ("The Lost Mine"). It is very old. "Forge of spells", a magic mace called the Lightbringer, mages plus gnomes and dwarves as part of Deepgarden pact; but lost when the cave & its mine vanished. Mage that we fought has been trying to find it - notes everywhere about it. It says that in about the year 900 (roughly 500 y/o) clans of dwarves and gnomes made the Deepgarden Pact agreement, sharing that cave and mine. It contains magical power alloy (as we know) in addition to other more mundane riches. Humans combined with them to create a legendary forge, the Forge Of Spells, where magic items can be crafted. Deepgarden Keep formed and prospered. All was lost when the Orcs laid waste to the area (plunging the North into what is now known as the Savage Frontier). In defending the forge from the Orcs, much of the cavern was destroyed and the location was lost to history.

There's a stack of papers mainly written as orders to other people in the area, along with a letter - "Lord Albric: My spies in Neverwinter tell me that there are forces due to arrive at Deepgarden Keep. They could be working for the Dwarves. Capture if you can, else kill. Don't allow them to interfere with our plans. See that any maps they have are delivered to us. I'm counting on you, Iarno." Signed with a black spider.

A locked chest at the foot of the bed. Temo struggles but manages to unlock it with a bit of Riglan's mending help on a broken tool. Many papers inside, again. Seem to be ambassadorial papers for Iarno Albric. Lots of belongings with his name on them. 180sp, 130gp; some gems; and two scrolls in a scroll case. A scroll of fireball and a scroll of charm person. There is also the mage's staff which Maireagh checks, doing an identify ritual in effect. It's a staff of defence. On the bugbears we find a skeleton key, by the looks of it. A master key. One has a black leather eyepatch with semiprecious stones; 50gp estimate and 33sp on him. On alchemy table, 3 reagents - mercury, dragon bile and powdered nightshade. Many books on magic, alchemy and history of the area on the bookshelf. In main room, a gold earring with a tiny ruby (15gp) and more coins of various types. We take the books.

The mage's body has a necromantic signature; it hangs around after death. Cast by spider? It's like down in the chasm - slowing decay. His body is still warm more than an hour later. He's dead but not decaying as expected. We're not sure what this means.

We find an armoury shortly after - 12 spears, 6 short swords, 4 long swords, 6 light crossbows, 8 crossbow cases with 20 crossbow bolts in each. Cold weather clothes too, including boots. We take the weaponry in Maireagh's bag just to stop the redbrands getting it. We leave, locking the door again. Further along the corridor we stumble across an ancient elven crypt with 3 skeletons guarding; we dispatch them easily. Temo and Riglan both roll 20s for investigation! The skeletons were human, male, corroded weaponry; spreading oak tree carvings, double doors in the corner sheathed in copper and gold plating, but it's faded beauty. Parts of the room show signs of disturbance, presumed study; dusty footprints across the room, so somehow there's a way to do that without provoking attack. Illepharn empire ancient elven words, similar to writing Riglan saw in his tomb vision back in the forest with the undead a few days ago. Maireagh is surprised as she didn't think there were any Illepharn ruins in this area; must have been part of the Evermores. That empire created the high moors thousands of years ago due to magic ravaging the land - perhaps the Evermoors, which we are on the edge of, have a similar history? She checks the stonework more closely. More than 8000 years old! Consistent with that empire. That means the crypt is by far the oldest thing in the entire network. Some of the original keep above us may have a very long ancestry!

The sarcophagi stone lids are carved; depicting two male elves, one female, all noble. We leave those alone. Our attention turns, then, to the double doors which  suddenly open... Two redbrand ruffians charge in. They are easily defeated, so we go through the double doors. A long, wide corridor, with small dim glowing lights as in the crypt itself. Behind us, a small overlooked door in the corner of the crypt is noticed and we investigate here further first - it leads to a dark room, so we light a lantern and realise we're in slave pens. Discarded clothing, bags, bits of personal effects are in a pile against the wall. There are bodies in cages either side. One is moaning softly. A woman and two children. They look very weak. Two males in another pen who aren't moving (medicine check; sadly, dead). The woman and children are OK. Very weak etc., but not injured. No food/water. 13yo, 18yo children. They're indeed the family of the murdered man. Other people have been taken as slaves. She says there's a boss. "Glass staff". Bugbears are mentioned. They want to stay behind while we make sure it's safe, so we make them as comfortable as we can and head back out.

Riglan is pissed off. He's heard tales of slaves, been told stories but really didn't think that such a thing could really be true.

We head down the wide corridor through the double doors. On the way down the corridor, Riglan falls into a pit trap (bad perception roll on entry). Hurt quite badly. Pulled back out by rope. The ol' "lighting sconce that turns and a grating covers the trap" thing.

End up down a side corridor in a grand room. Well lit. Some kind of marble pool at one end, barrels, stairs all over the place heading up; looks grand. Good stonework. A carved marble door near the top. A hard-to-see rope pulls up an oilskin satchel from the water. Inside is dry. (Other Items catalogued. Iarno's getaway bag? Huh?). Hidden passage back to chasm; all parts of chasm have now been checked. Another small door by the pool is opened by Maireagh - who shouts, "We've got company!" - *another* battle! 3 ruffians. We defeat them. A barracks/store room. 3 scarlet cloaks hanging from bunks and a few coins.

Lots of food here - apples, pears, other fruit; salted pork, sugar, millet, and more; even ale. This was where the redbrands were storing everything.

We head out of the top marble door. Turns out we exit in the old ruined keep - it was where they were hiding their base. We help the woman and kids out, and show everything to Sildar. The glass staff mage was Iarno! He doesn't know what's up. He takes over the marshal's office and has the rest of the redbrands arrested. We take his 200gp reward, but gift the "finding murdered man's family" 100gp reward back to that family. She is grateful (woman - Mirna Dendrar, kids Nars and Nilsa). She says when she was a young girl, she and her family fled from an outpost at Thundergrove Bastion. The undead overran it. Her family had a herb and alchemy shop - she can help with that if we ever need it. Inside the shop, in the SE part of Thundergrove Bastion, is a case with a family heirloom - an emerald necklace hidden behind a section of storage shelves. If we find that it's ours, should we ever be able to get in there. It was her grandmothers; handed down.

The innkeeper offers us rooms, but we really like the farm and politely refuse. Long rest!

DAY 14

Riglan switches out Heat Metal for Barkskin. We tell Carp all about what happened, so he helped save the town but we are encouraging him to tell others more quickly next time!

Downtime: We sell some gems and some scrolls, and check with Lion Costa - letting them know about the stuff in the cave - sell pelts, weapons, etc, get a trading card because we buy armour for Maireagh and Nethza. Lots of trading results in a bag of holding, night goggles and a bag of tricks for Timo; we sell or trade most things we'd acquired, including the glass staff. Even after buying Maireagh new half plate and swapping Timo's shortbow for a hand crossbow, we still have over 700gp left! We celebrate at the Taproom.

We have to finish up at the Marshal's Office. Sildar is there. We hand over any remaining paperwork etc. from the Redbrands.

We're allowed to question Iarno. He's not here for Wave Echo Cave; he was sent by Lord's Alliance but was in touch with the black spider well before. Black Spider wanted him here so it was all a setup. The Keep needed to be controlled, as it's the closest place to control rather than e.g. at Yartar (Nesmay still rebuilding). Control needed because it's the gateway to the Evermoors and all the riches within. The Black Spider, he only knows by pseudonym. Iarno knows they're Drow. That's all. The bugbears were sent by the Black Spider. Redbrands were recruited instead.

Is it just a play for riches? No, it's more for control. Iarno thinks Black Spider might reside anywhere; he tried to track messages once but couldn't find a source. Black Spider speaks to many people; Iarno is only part of a network.

The bugbears would've known then way to Wave Echo Cave, Iarno thinks. The three brothers had a map, and the Black Spider wanted it. Iarno wasn't part of that. We ask about Cragmaw Castle; he doesn't know about that either. The map is there, and the Black Spider already knows where the cave is, he thinks. Black Spider just looking for the Forge.

He doesn't know about others in the network; but did have a rival in town (!) - that's Halia. He now worries that she'll rise in power. She'd warned him not to hit his intended target; he's avoiding looking at Maireagh; Halia has other designs for that person. A 19 roll plus mods from Nethza intimidates him into confessing. They were after Maireagh but didn't know the rest of us were with them. Nethza gets angry and wants to know why *she* was attacked. Iarno doesn't know; it was just a random attack.

It's early afternoon. **We make the sudden decision to head out to Old Owlbear Tower, since we made a promise about that but do want to get on with looking for Gundren quickly.** So! Off we go. We just head out on foot, southwards roughly, cross country. There's a road at first that ultimately heads to a bridge over the river south of the town, but we need to come off that to reach the tower. We get another hour or two off there, then find a camp spot.

it rains overnight, but that's useful as we use the tent sides with rope and rocks to help gather water. The dog does watch all night! Maireagh can also cast water spells to make more.

## DAY 15

In the morning, it might drizzle now and then but is otherwise dry and warm. The rain overnight has replenished some of the smaller springs which means we can easily refill as we go. By around the middle of the day we approach the tower (easy find - 22 survival roll). We crest a hill to see it and see it, descending towards it. Eventually we think we're on an old trail of some kind. The tower is a crumbling ruin, surrounded by the low hills. Closer, we see remnants of other structures; the tower used to be part of something larger.

We were told by Daran there was some sort of undead problem here, but also someone had supposedly set up a campsite (!).

Old footpaths lead between some of the structures, or we can ignore those and find a more direct way to the tower. Some distance away, Riglan calls a fey owl to fly over and investigate. Through it, he hears nothing unusual. 20ft up, direct line to the tower. Much of the ground - a good 50% - is obscured by trees, probably about 200yo. Lots of paths around the surrounding remnants, possibly fortifications. Landing on a low tree branch near the tower, there are fewer other birds around than expected. It's quiet. Landing up on the crumbling tower top (40ft), looks like the old top floor. Stairway, but blocked by rubble; top is inaccessible from within. Around a 10ft radius (20ft across), tapering slightly as it rises. Flying around, all windows are boarded up. There's a door slightly ajar at the entrance. Footprints around in and out. Under the tree canopy, flying down and around, the owl sees some old campsites, one looking hastily abandoned. Don't look too old. Owl comes back; we head towards the camp.

As we get close, quickly becomes obvious that there's a strong smell of dead things. A courtyard of sorts remains some distance out, with the hastily abandoned campsite in it. As we get close, zombies pour out of the tower and we battle for a while, but then a red wizard (!) appears - a few shouted bits of dialogue - his name is Hamun Kost. He's doing research here - these are Netharese ruins - claims nobody was hurt; he brought all zombies himself. Others just fled in fear.

Unfortunately we can't come to an agreement - he wants us to go on some weird quest for him, which would take days - get rid of some orcs, find a banshee who can tell us who built the tower - and besides, Riglan abhors undead and Temo abhors evil. The battle resumes and we are happily successful, but sadly there is no convincing or saving the mage, who we kill. As he falls, the slain undead crumble to dust.

We investigate the mage; just robes and his on-person belongings. He's not carrying anything big. He has a camp site with a larger tent of (to our eyes) unusual design; a cot, chair, desk, two chests. In the tower, in lamp light, signs of work/tools, searching, but we can't decipher what it was; no undead on the various floors, insofar as can access them. Maireagh confirms the tower's age at about 5-6,000 years old. High Netharil (Netharese).

After a rest and some food, we investigate more. There's no security on the tent or chests etc., because of course the undead were the security. He has lots of kit, but only a ring of protection is found that's been effectively grave-robbed from the tower, so we keep that but pack the rest for heading back to Deepgarden Keep.

We head home, camping at the same place as before, refilling water as go.

