# Riglan: Part 6

## DAY 36 (aligns roughly day 46 after war was won, Gnog's campaign, or "day zero" of campaign 5)

We awaken back at the rented cottage in Deepgarden Keep. We hear commotion outside and realise Nethza is already up. We go out; Carp etc. are outside looking towards where the storm was last night - beautiful snow capped mountains and blue skies where the storm was last night. The clouds have all gone.

Having slept soundly after the storm, Riglan explains to his party about the dream last night. He's quite surprised at the lack of storm today, but the staff said what it said. Confusing. There are many questions. Riglan can't answer much of them, but does his best. Nethza suggests we perhaps talk to Daran to trace back the staff's history, given we're not sure if we can trust it.

After stocking up at the market, we head out to their farm. We see them tending the fields in the distance, but the fields don't seem to be in great shape. The weather has perhaps caused some mildew of some kind which has affected their crops. Big sections of the fields contain plants that don't look too healthy. Possibly even diseased. We chat with them briefly and Riglan asks if he can take a closer look; it seems to be a soil problem, patterned areas of isolated pockets where things are growing badly. Some of the fields look very flat, so things were probably dumped a long time ago that maybe is affecting the plants now grown on top.

Riglan suggests digging a bore of hole of sorts in the middle of one of the struggling flat areas. We dig down about 2m then hit something, so we widen the hole to pull whatever it is out. Maireagh swears about dwarves (!) - we find a pool of slag from smelters. So this area used to be a dumping ground. Riglan suggests he has magic that may help & will come back tomorrow; this handily brings us to the subject of the staff.

Daran recognises it via stories and some distant memory but not directly visually. Reidoth! We should speak to him (the druid). He can't tell us more, because of a promise apparently; not sinister, just a personal principle. Qelline (Carp's mum) might say more. They used to adventure together (Qelline has previously alluded to something like this but hasn't talked about it in detail).

He does at least assure us that we should be able to trust the staff. He talks about the time when the old elf druid he was with fell in battle - Riglan had seen this in the vision at the cave. Daran does say that the staff is an old artefact, in this form, that belongs to "The Forest" - in its widest sense - with much of its original power untapped. Belongs to a time when the elves of the fey wild were still young upon the earth. The magical power back then was dramatically stronger than available now. He warns that some people might seek to take the staff; those few who are aware of its power.

We spend much of the rest of the day helping Daran dig out areas of slag, much of which has solidified and is only about 7ft (2m) down; we can mound topsoil away, move plants etc. & shift the slag via magic lifting near a road so it can be properly disposed of. In practice, Maireagh heads back to fetch others to help with carts and obviously asks Nundro since he's building a team for that kind of thing and it's possible to refine this old waste with more modern techniques and magic and use some of it. More metal can be pulled; tar extracted; some parts can be used as crude blocks for e.g. the "Rails" that will bridge the boggy land towards Wave Echo Cave etc. - useful. Riglan says he'll come back tomorrow to help with regrowing. They offer dinner and drinks. We don't argue. So we spend the evening, exchanging stories. Berit even opens up about the war more, in a more positive way as the trauma lessons; marching South for weeks, the next march towards battle, the last night under a giant shield, an entire day of intense battle with dwarves and druids and Treants and giants and more. By about 10:30pm we realise how late it's got and we head back to the cottage.

(NB - Daran mentions **Goldenfields, on the way towards Waterdeep and/or Desarin valley**, call in there; a farming approach that works with plants, more "natural" / in line with Firbolg or elven principles of using variety and almost wild approaches to gain disproportionate benefit from the plants being stronger through their connections).

## DAY 37

Downtime: Riglan returns to the farm to cast Plant Growth, the 8 hour version, to help the farm. Maireagh works with Nundro on the slag refinement and other mining technical problems. Nethza helps with general tasks on the farm and Temo is meant to be helping Nethza, but has a bit of a habit of interrupting Riglan with random thoughts and ideas but Riglan has to concentrate! But in the end, the work is done. At the completion, there's a sudden visible change as the plants grow & recover from diseases; other wilder plants spring up in between rows, with some useful and some just to help the land variety. Riglan warns that the unusual vitality probably won't last more than, well, maybe a growing season; but the *template* of the changes with some better use of space with not just fillers but useful crops will help.

We get four bottles of cider! Yay. We're invited for dinner again, but we don't to impose so head back to the cottage at Alsweir Steading. Maireagh is itching to talk to Qelline. On the way Temo suggests that maybe he should broach the subject as Maireagh can be a bit... direct...!

Passing by the temple en route, Nethza buys some holy water - she saw its use in Wave Echo Cave and is keen to have some.

When we get there, they've shut up shop and they're sat outside, with it being a nice evening and people are marvelling at the view of the now-clear mountains. We overhear bits of Carp asking lots of questions, and Qelline trying to answer things about caves up there but saying it's too dangerous. Carp asks how she knows this stuff and she kind of dodges it. She notices us and asks where we've been, which is a good way to get started on the conversation. Riglan heavy-handedly suggests that Temo and Carp play; Temo gets a weasel from the bag of tricks and off they go.

Maireagh and Riglan try to broach the subject of the staff and Daran but it's clumsy; Nethza talks about her own story a little by means of another approach, saying it'd help to meet new people who've been through extraordinary things - like Qelline. But without prying, only if she's comfortable. (Good rolls, persuasion). She asks to see the staff. Riglan hands it over. She goes indoors and looks around for a while, then comes out with a book. She shows us a drawing of the staff, looking like it does right now. She asks us if we've seen Reidoth and we mention that Daran hasn't been able to tell us much. She says that Reidoth wasn't always Reidoth. They adventured together for 6-7 years; Reidoth using a staff with a snake head (which Riglan says - "yes, that's what this used to be"). She explains about Reidoth - used to be known by Elvish name Cowrellethlen. He was already very old back then. He'd refused to depart for the fey wild with other elves, and they'd adventured with for a decade at the very end of his long 600-odd year life, and he passed naturally - but was reincarnated with magic. They never knew who did that; their group was rejoined by someone called Reidoth about 3 years later and it wasn't until the staff interacted with him in a certain way that Qelline realised. She thinks he didn't have his memories for much of the time. She considers Reidoth a good friend but they parted ways because she felt that Daran was keeping some kind of secret about it all that he couldn't share with Qelline and she was sufficiently uncomfortable with it that her and another party member ended up stopping adventuring and settled down (Borgan, the other party member, travelled to Nesmay). It was, she says, a matter of trust. They're still friends, but the distance was there.

She finds the staff's story in the book. A significant moment was after the fall of Phalorm. Cowrellethlen was involved in a mighty battle with a few people who go back to Phalorm's remnants, at the time when the Evermoors was still in flux; that region was being tamed by a famous barbarian Nimoar. He brought his hoarde to civilise the countryside from his home, Nimoar's Hold - today Waterdeep. Claiming it, but claiming it as safe territory, pushing back against giants at the Evermoors. Cowrellethlen was at the same time trying to push back against a legendary evil creature with various names, including The Crackling Death (a powerful female blue dragon) with a particular hatred of the giants herself. She'd infiltrated Nimoar's council of war advisors via human form and this is in part what drove him to push so far north against the giants there. During the battle, after 30 days of fighting, the dragon revealed her true form to try and destroy all the then-weakened armies on both sides. Cowrellethlen was then a young elven mage druid; he had to draw upon power contained within the echo of Ilpharn to power the spell needed to drive the dragon away (the dragon fled north, with occasional stories of reemergence every few hundred years). That huge spell was the one which drained the staff.

We wind up chatting; it's Carp's bed time.

We head towards Elder Barge for food but, first, Nethza suggests we get a gilded flower of some sort as a spell component for a potential fey summoning. We check with Blackfinger but it's more of a jeweller's work this time, so we go to Font of Fancy & pay 50% (150gp) for the commission. They say it'll take 5 days. Then we get food, head home and go to bed.

## DAY 38

We're a bit torn between orcs and Reidoth as some options. We check in with Sildar. It turns out that he's worked with Lion Shield Costa, after our rescue the other day, and they've sent a force to Wyvern Tor and think it should be under control. They're due back tomorrow. He asks that maybe we stay around one more day? Since the guard is away; help defend the town.

We agree and use the day as downtime.

* Temo reads his Deepgarden history book (but only gets a small way through it).
* Nethza reads a bit and also plucks up courage to go to the temple and speak to the priestess. They spend some time together. She gets a bit of insight into, and comfort about her own heritage, but still struggles with it.
* Maireagh investigates what's needed to mount an expedition to Old Owlbear Tower, so she and Riglan spend time travelling between the small library at the hall near the marshal's office & the Scrollkeeper.
* Some of our paperwork probably should be taken to Yartar for final stamping and "prove" the claim when we actually do something (Old Owlbear Tower falls under Deepgarden Keep, and Deepgarden owes allegiance to administration in Yartar).
* We have exclusive access to and use of the tower and its outbuildings.
* We could set up camp, or even permanent residence there; we can excavate, study, restore, as we see fit - as long as we never use anything we discover in rebellion or other hostile activity against Deepgarden Keep or related legal entities such as Yartar and the peoples therein.

This does mean that if we build things or employ people, we're responsible for maintaining those things and paying / looking after those people.

We hear that the Wyvern Tor group have arrived back with Grugor Battleaxe's head (!) as proof of success. They routed the orcs and brought back whatever they could find for Sildar to see if there are any connections between the orcs and other strange happenings locally; especially, see if they have any connection to Wave Echo Cave. It'll take a few days though. They're quite injured though as there as a rock-hurling ogre. Four were messed up. Riglan casts lots of healing spells along with helping set broken bones etc. to try and help out. They head to the temple for other help & Riglan is (happily) surprised to see Nethza there.

That night, Qelline, knowing we're headed out to see Reidoth, packs a loaf of fruit/seed bread she's baked that she would like us to take to him and makes us all dinner.

## DAY 39

We take the horse and mules, with Riglan on foot. We leave fairly early. The weather is very good and (nat 20 survival) Riglan finds a good route - by midday the old but in-use road ends; there's an even older, now disused road that goes to Thundergrove Bastion and Riglan's found the path that gets onto that. We press on. (Survival 18) The moors, as always, seem to have worse weather - we see foggy, colder weather ahead.

We cross paths with an older couple (50s) who look wiry and strong; one is a half-orc woman, with an older human man. they're travelling the other way but not on the road. They're exiting the moors from another place. She's pushing a cart - we can see bones, teeth, hides and so-on. We'd think they were hunters but there's everything *except* the meat on there. They're wary when they first see us. They're dressed like adventurers. Riglan waves at them. We make conversation; they're more harvesters than hunters. We see they're injured, the man especially so Riglan casts Healing Word to help. He's called Markoth and she's Gruushma. They warn of more monster activity than usual and suggests we don't head that way. They harvested a Carrion Crawler and some Gricks. They saw much larger things further in, including stuff that swims and flies.

Riglan eyes up the Carrion Crawler carapace, for armour. They're not cleaned up or anything but it's been well harvested. He asks what they'd hope to get for them - they say they might be dreaming but would hope for 100gp. But they want to start a new life - as a couple - and feel bad about asking us full price; we helped them; so instead they offer to sell us their tools. They're hoping to sell the materials in Deepgarden Keep and the market; then on to settle perhaps in Verunsgaard, or better, maybe Sungift. (Maireagh tells them to look for Koza @ Blackfinger if they can't get a good price).

They somewhat awkwardly ask for 35gp for the tools and information. They start showing us all of the kit, basically a canvas bag with the tools inside, they spend some time telling us about it. We exchange money and part company.

We continue with caution towards Thundergrove Bastion. We remember that the lady and children (of murdered husband, by Redbrands) rescued from under the keep mentioned a calamity of ashfall or somesuch some 20 years ago that rendered the town uninhabitable. A mix of volcanic ash and fog from the Evermoors that settled in a strange, arcane blanket. Ash zombies started to rise. Well, you get the idea. They ran. So we camp well before we get there, in - insofar as we can judge it - a "safe" area. From around 3pm onwards we start looking for a place to camp.

By 4pm (nat 14+8 survival) we find a clean stream and some elevated, less damp ground with scattered trees and a bit of a thicket. Some rock outcrops. So we camp in this defensible location. It's raised above the low lying fog; we can see more light from the sky.

Nethza goes with Riglan to hang out while he forages & hunts, Maireagh and Temo setting up camp & reading. We find tubers, bracken and mushrooms and eat some of the venison to supplement it as Riglan can't bring himself to eat some frogs they find (after the giant frogs incident). Then he spots some quail, but can't catch them. Maireagh also has some bread from town.

We have a few hours before dark. Temo reads but can't make headway. Riglan hunts for herbs (treated as perception, 12+8). Maireagh cleans up and repairs bits of the monster toolkit - it's extremely good quality but just well used. Nethza is reading the monster book.

Watch is dog plus Maireagh, Nethza, Temo, Riglan. As Temo is changing watch to Riglan, we both hear something (both on good perception rolls - 21, 27 respectively). We sneak out to investigate. A large distant shape is moving through the mist, barely lit by moonlight. The metal dog joins us, having not noticed this sooner. It looks huge as it slowly passes by. 20ft high, but the difficulty to see it tells us that it is distant. The sound it makes comes from its mass, as it squishes things underfoot. It passes by.

Riglan's watch passes subsequently without incident, if a fair few nerves!

## DAY 40

Horses & mules are fed; we pack up and leave. It's hard to find the route again (survival 2+8) - the big creature from the previous night seems to have flattened a lot of the landscape and it seems to have obscured the trail we were on for some distance. When we get close to that, we see footprints that are almost 3.5-4ft long. There's a gouge in the land as if the thing was dragging something behind it. It seems to have been wearing boots! Riglan surmises a giant of some description. What's that doing here?! We don't know what kind of giant it might be (bad rolls all round). Temo thinks that *maybe* it could even be Reidoth having cast a spell to enlarge himself? Giants wouldn't normally wear shoes.

Anyway we find the track eventually and carry on towards town. It takes longer than we expect even with our difficulty in navigation - we start to suspect some significant error. Riglan considers calling a creature, but suddenly (perception 16+8) realises he hasn't seen any animals for a good half hour. There's some slightly higher ground nearby that might let us see above the mist a bit so we head for that to try and get bearings. We lift above it, realising that the mist is a particularly low-lying fog layer about 20ft deep; we get some sight of bigger trees here and there. Temo asks Riglan for a boost, so Temo sits on his shoulders and the 8ft extra lets him spot a ruined tower. Temo takes a bearing; it's on the higher ground area anyway, albeit with a few dips down in between. We head there.

About 30 mins later we are getting close-ish. From that point, we try to be stealthy but Temo aside we fail miserably at that (Temo stealth 27, everyone else in the order of less than 13; Riglan got 2!). We can see the main village and head that way, expecting zombies! Temo is "stealthing" ahead, quietly, cursing about the noisy party behind. He notices movement ahead, quite close! Within about 30ft. He stops and squints through the mist, seeing a few long spindly legs and sharp shapes ahead. Giant spider... Two spiders... He quietly retreats to the group - we haven't even reached the main buildings yet.

Riglan calls a bat (blindsight 60ft). We're about 80ft from where Temo saw the spiders. The bat flies 40ft ish up. Riglan keeps reconnecting to its senses as usual. There are indeed two giant spiders. (Riglan - poor insight here, 6+5). They're not behaving the way I'd expect them to behave; they're not laying in wait with webs, they're more perhaps guarding. There's no lair or web; they look almost distressed, hungry but displaced somehow. Other things appear to be scurrying away from them as they move about. Not fleeing, just making room. Things in the undergrowth. Hard to tell on bat sonar. Riglan is still in range to ask the bat to fly in about twice as far again, then return. Solid buildings are sensed, and a bit of movement in the area. The pattern of movement seems to be more like different types of creatures that are making an effort to avoid each other. There are humanoids. Some move very slowly, some quickly - the quick ones dart around to avoid the slower ones. The slower ones seem almost random.

Riglan calls the bat back and elects to approach and try to talk to the giant spiders. Keep the party within 60ft. Riglan approaches with no effort to be stealthy, speaking in a spider language (best guess for giant spiders) as he goes. He sees them coming towards him. He understands their gestures; "Why are you distressed? Can I help?" - the approach, undeterred, looking hungry. He throws out some venison hoping to stop them; they pause to wrap it and collect it, but still approach. He tries to intimidate them to stop (nat 20) - "eating me will give you little food; I can help you find more; why are you distressed?". This gives them pause but it's clear that they've had nothing to eat for a very long time. Riglan produces all 10 goodberries from his staff; they devour them. Animal handling scrapes by (8+5) as he says "these will tide you for a while; we can show you the direction to find more creatures". They speak; Riglan understands; "You are a druid; there is another druid; but we tell him the same as we have told you; beware; you do not want to go into the village; only death lives there" - they scurry off. Riglan sends the bat with them to guide them back in the direction where we last saw living creatures - nature can take its course.

We are warned, but there's not much else we can do other than walk in and see what happens.

We reach the walled edge of the settlement. What remains of wooden palisades; most fallen to ruin. Sections still stand, 15ft high. Some has rotten, some crushed by presumed large creatures, much is overgrown. Nature has overgrown this. Even though plants have grown and rain must have fallen for years, there's still a thick cake of ash where plants aren't growing, including on building roofs (many buildings collapsed). We know from the bat that the tower was towards the middle of the village (see map; we approach from NW). We cautiously approach the 1st mostly-intact building we see close to the road we're on (3 on map).

On the right, a single storey cottage with a 30ft tree growing out of it (1 on map) as we pass by. Riglan notices some rustling in the scrub, low down. Maybe 3ft high. He approaches cautiously, trying to be friendly and speaking Sylvain to try and give an impression of friendship. Two eyes peer out. Riglan ushers Temo forward to have a try. Temo's very persuasive! (16+10, even with disadvantage). Creatures emerge, covered in mould and soot, dried twigs really; they seem to be bushes themselves, but no leaves. Riglan senses that these are not natural; there is foul magic at work. They look almost like the plant version of undead. They aren't moving to attack; perhaps because Temo has persuaded them that we're not an enemy. Riglan offers them water; they not react; they regard us quizzically. Seem slightly enthralled by Temo. One makes a strange sound like a cross between a reed instrument and nails on wood. We hear replies around us. Temo points deeper into the building and tells them to "go that way", and we start to try and retreat. We sense that all around us there is more movement. Riglan realises that the movement he saw from the bat was these strange things.

We're becoming encircled but we try to retreat towards the road. Some scatter out of the way as we head that way, but it's not for us - in the distance is one slowly moving humanoid shape moving our way. The twig creatures hide. About 60ft away through the thin fog appears a zombie, covered in ash.

Riglan says, "...take us to Reidoth...?!" - no response. The zombie is upon us! Battle!

Temo throws a firebolt. Riglan notices that as it takes damage that the ash cloud flies off it into the surrounding area. Doesn't look healthy. We see a larger plant zombie (blight) emerge to our left. It's almost human sized. Looks made of almost needle-like spikes; conifer spikes kind of thing. Thorns. As it stands, a dust of pollen is released into the air. It looks at Riglan and shoots (but misses) with some kind of spikes / needles at him. It doesn't have eyes - perhaps it works by sound or vibration. Temo and Nethza take down the zombie, Temo with firebolt and Nethza with Shadowblast (Eldritch Blast). Riglan hits the blight with a fireball. He notices more movement in the distance where the first zombie came from. Maireagh finishes it off (via her mechanical equivalent of Thorn Whip).

Emerging from the right, near the house (no 1/2) where we first saw the undead plants, and ahead, on the road - neither where Riglan saw movement - we see more zombies coming at us. All emerge from the mist, ashy, impossible to see at range. Nethza is freaked. Riglan is pissed off about the plants more than anything. Then there's a louder noise. Like huge tree falling; another, so not trees falling, but creatures calling to each other. We see a larger blight emerging again off the right, heading towards us; all gnarled up vines; slow moving. At least Riglan's size.

* The tiny undead plants screech.
* The middle one had no eyes, made no sound but released spores.
* This new, large on speaks a twisted, coarse form of Sylvain - Riglan realises it's calling, like a call to arms, calling forth its children - "The living invade our domain! We have found them!".

The small undead plants that had been running, now turn and attack. Three are on top of us quickly. They get some small hits but Temo takes one out with Firebolt. Skeletal zombies come into view down the road - 4 more. So 6 zombies, 1 big blight and two small so far. Nethza takes out a small blight and moves to engage the zombie that'd come from the right. She hits and the zombie releases ash - she'd forgotten about it - manages the save and doesn't get hurt.

An arrow flies out of nowhere - hits a zombie up front - ash is released - then a dagger flies out from where Riglan had seen movement - hits again, this time, no ash. Riglan throws flame at the zombie by Nethza (the large blight is too far away); the zombie nearly goes down but just manages to bounce back. It takes a couple more hits but Maireagh takes it down and the dog deals with the small blight too. Her and dog form up as defence on the encroaching line of zombies from deeper in town.

Now the new wave is coming up. The zombie hit by the unknown-source arrow and dagger attacks; the dog intervenes and distracts it, so it fails to hit Maireagh. The vine blight is moving closer, getting within striking range. Vines shoot into the ground and emerge in a 15 ft writhing mass around it, lashing out. The dog, Riglan and Nethza are in range. Riglan pulls free; Nethza *just* makes it too; the dog easily doges it. The ground is a mess around us now though. The blight now tries again, a long coiling vine reaching out and coiling around Nethza, hurting and grappling her. Temo takes aim and with the crossbow (sneak attack, gets 20 damage as he's at 4d4 + 6 with that now), severing the arm that had grappled Nethza. The other zombies come right up to us, while Nethza now takes down the blight.

Riglan notices now two people in black cloaks dashing out - running away! Riglan shouts after them but they indicate he should keep quiet. Realising that they've still 5 zombies and they've barely even set foot into the village yet, he conjures 4 CR 1/2 creatures (gets giant wasps - AC 12, fly 50, HP 13 + 10 from totem, sting +4 1d6+2 and irrelevant :-/ poison damage) then calls the spirit totem (10hp all). They position themselves in melee range to help distract our enemies. Maireagh and Temo almost take one down, but when that zombie moves forward one of the wasps attacks via opportunity and actually manages to take it down (6+2, and failed zombie con save). Two attack Nethza - one hits but not badly, the other misses. The wasps go. Some alright hits based on advantage position, even if the damage isn't great. Good con saves, fortunately, all round. Nethza manages to take out two - we've concentrated on those which have been hit already to avoid ash damage. The remaining zombies are taken down quite quickly after that.

Riglan sends the wasps to look for the two cloaked figures - the wasps are very fast. The wasps lead us to a building that the creatures ran into building no 4. We bypass no 3 and head to that building. On the way, we pass a few other bushes - Riglan's watching - but no rustling. We're not being stealthy, but we keep quiet. We get to the building and the door is shut but the wasps are certain they're there. Riglan uses Druidcraft to make a cat miaow (!) just inside the door - no reaction. He knocks lightly, then says, "Please let us in or we'll have to make a lot of noise". Someone appears in the window - "Go away! You'll draw them to our hideout!" - Nethza comes up and is fucking scary. Dark smoke emanates from her and under their door, and she whispers, insisting that they let us in. They comply. We quietly enter - to be clear, that's Riglan, Nethza, Temo, Maireagh, the dog and the four gia... - Riglan points them to the roof, asking them to tap on the window if anything comes close.

6 people sit in the dark. One seems to be a clear leader. Riglan approaches the leader and whispers - "what's going on?". They don't say much. Riglan sees that Maireagh realises what's going on and she tenses up. Riglan at that nods, and says "very well" and we go back outside - but as we're leaving, they tell us to walk away and leave the village. Riglan says we can't do that - we have to find Reidoth. At this, they draw their weapons. Oops. Another fight... (Side note - turns out they are dragon cultists. Even if Marieagh or anyone else had managed to convey that, Riglan would probably have lacked the knowledge or experience to realise how much danger the party would be in with a battle, and when goaded, would've probably turned around and said "but we can't leave" anyway. He's honest like that! We don't know that it's not Reidoth they reacted to - they don't even know the name - it was the assertion that we "can't" leave. We'll probably never find out what they're doing here now.)

It's a small room with a LOT of people in it. 4x6 squares with 5 of us, 6 of them and 4 wasps outside about to be brought in. At least we'd opened the door, since we were starting to leave, so the wasps have a chance to come in. Nethza's in the doorway, blocking them and next minute Riglan takes a bad hit from the lead guy and loses concentration. The wasp vanish! Nethza rushes in but her next attacks on the leader miss. Others fare better, and we do well for a while; Riglan hears the sound of plant zombies from outside; Maireagh takes some hits but nothing big; Nethza has another go and takes down the leader completely. The remaining two surrender. They're really young and frightened. They say they're more concerned about the "things out there". Riglan tells them to close the door behind us if we leave and *stay quiet*. They don't look useful in battle and his insight tells him that they were really only motivated by the intimidation of their leader.

Nethza checks outside - "Guys! We have company!" - Temo rushes out, sees a small blight already reaching for Nethza and takes it out. He spots plenty more coming. At least 5 zombies, ash type, arriving; two large blights and one small close by. Maireagh says "don't you boys do *anything!*" at the two cultist kids and runs outside, Thorn Whipping a spiky blight and pulling it in - the dog runs up and finishes that same one off. A bark/entangling one (vine blight) rips up the earth; the dog and Nethza are caught but Maireagh keeps away. It whips out at the now-restrained Nethza but she manages to wriggle away.

Riglan hits the approaching group of zombies with Ice Knife. He fully misses (nat 1) the target but still gets 12 points of damage on all of them; they all release ash. Another needle blight emerges from a tree and fires barbs at Temo, seeing him off by himself to one side; but Temo dodges it. Shortly after, Temo takes it down with an aimed shot. Maireagh, the dog and Nethza grapple with the vine blight - but when it comes to attack, it goes for Riglan and hits.

Anyway, same story. We whittle them down but Nethza's out of spells, we've taken damage; we retreat back into the cottage to rest. Riglan tries to speak to the two kids but they're uncooperative. Nethza steps in and intimidates them... Not our finest hour but really, we don't have time for this nonsense.

They say they're just following. They were routed down at the Well Of Dragons; they travelled with their platoon leader Favric, running when the volcano erupted. They started tracking a young black dragon that was finding some new territory, but got into a fight with another bigger dragon and ran itself. They they tracked it here; Favric planned to try and treat it and get on its good side. They say "...we're nothing without the dragons. We know that the dragon is not established - he needs to find a new lair; to make a new lair; I think it wants to make the lair here, but there's a roving giant and the two of them - it's only a matter of time before the two of them clash" - they wanted to strengthen the dragon so it could win the battle.

Maireagh starts laying into them... Temo tries to calm them down. We learn that there **are two more with the dragon** right now. As they look around - it all starts to sink in. They got wrapped into this huge thing. They feel trapped. We give them some assurances about where they are and that we can help, and they tell us where the other two are. The black dragon is in the tower (no 7). **In** the tower - it must be young - they tend to bring food to the lower part, hunted from nearby, offering it to the dragon which lives in the 2nd storey of the tower (which has no roof). There's another place they use to hide and tell us where it is (old smithy, no 8). They've sneaked around following the zombies around; they think there's a nest - a place they always emerge from - an old store (hmm, we've heard about an old store being abandoned!) - has a strong smell to it, they seem to return there (6).

We take a short rest here, sharing our food.

The bat returns! It only has a few minutes left. It wants to help so Riglan sends it off to the tower, but via the shop (6). No zombies in it, nothing at all, but a couple heading towards there. Now bat heads up to tower. There's an open door on the square building adjoining the tower proper. Maybe 12ft. Tower about 30ft high, 15ft high floors. Riglan asks the kid - the square room is for storage, and they take food up into the tower from there. So the door should be closed - the bat goes in. Empty room. Internal door to the tower proper is also open. Bat goes in. Crumbled floor, no sign of anyone. It hears movement on the floor above. The bat listens a while. Sounds like exertion and heavy breathing, but also shallow breathing from a different area. Then a third thing - some kind of sigh and a fetid wind billows around. The bat is uneasy! The bat leaves the way it came in and tries a low fly around the tower to see if it can spot any bodies - nothing around, just bushes and trees. It flies up and above. It senses what's inside the tower, trying to get a view in through the partially collapsed roof. It's keeping at limit of vision range so it's unclear; there are things on the floor, but unsure if food or people. There's no movement, so all it has is organic / animal kind of shapes. The dragon notices it. Riglan tells it to flee, away from him and go in peace, thanking it. The dragon had been hunched, looking forwards, but then its head had whipped around and it had looked through the hole in the roof.

Riglan asks the kids how long it normally takes to feed the dragon. They evade a bit and look slightly guilty... "There is something you're not telling us," says Riglan. They say they've never had to feed it before because they're quite good with their hands - turns out they draw straws and they'd been doing slight of hand.

We consider going in. Maireagh knows that they spray acid. We ask how long these two kids have been here. 7 days ago apparently. Dragon probably arrived about 10 days ago - they were following. The two that went to feed it are kids too.

Riglan figures they have to go in. Maireagh points out that dragons aren't best fought in enclosed spaces - it's better to spread out - so they need a way to pull the dragon outside somehow. And we reckon zombies are going to turn up if there's a fight, since it's unlikely to be a quiet endeavour!

Maireagh uses some platinum rings to effectively cast Warding Bond on Riglan so they share a connection and Riglan has better defenses and reactions. We stealth our way to the tower - Maireagh and Temo to go inside & attack there, Nethza can apparently fly and attack at 120ft range, Riglan will try to keep an eye on the tower roof but otherwise be out of the way & use a fey companion bird (albatross again) to attack at range. Riglan and Nethza try to creep round the back (Riglan badly! Nat 1 stealth!), waiting about 30 seconds for Temo etc to creep in then summoning the creature and using the bear spirit to give everyone 10 temp HP. Nethza seeing this is the cue to fly and attack as a distraction to help Temo and Maireagh inside the tower.

Inside, Temo hears Riglan clumsily making his way to the back and hears Nethza casting 'fly'. He sneaks into the tower and through the broken floor can make out the dragon, starting to move towards the hole in the roof - Nethza's distraction is working. He moves under cover of some rubble (not great hiding) and bides his time for a better shot (prepared action for for when dragon moves more into view through the hole in the floor). Maireagh comes in and keeping as a quiet as she can in half plate, prepares Thorn Whip but keeps the dog in the other room - too many stealth risks and it's fast anyway. It hides in the corner of the adjoining square room. The both see the dragon approaching the roof hole through curiosity.

Then it spots Temo! "Oh. What have we here?!" - Temo tries to attack with the crossbow. Misses wildly. Maireagh tries. Misses too. Awful rolls all round, what an annoying fuckup heh. Dog held action is to Dash, so it runs up the stairs. The dragon says "Oh, two things? This will be fun!" and tries to bite Temo down through the floor (10ft reach). He's used his reaction already, that was the gamble. It hasn't paid off at all. Bad damage. It then attacks the dog twice with claws and does even more damage as both hit.

Nethza flies closer and curses the dragon (hex blade). Tries Eldrich Blast 2 bolts. Both hit. Good damage (damage 29). She talks shit at it to try and further distract it and pulls back a little to again try and draw its attention. Riglan's heard the shouts so bashes down the back door, gets line of sight on Temo, casts healing and goes back out so he can see the tower roof (albeit very obliquely). He commands the bird to do a fly by attack. Decent hit (damage 13).

Temo suddenly realises that the dragon hasn't done anything with the attacks. They've landed and it seems to have just taken it. No breath weapon either, though that could be coming! He takes another gamble, takes aim and fires. Despite cover, just hits (on the advantage) with a good sneak roll (damage 27). As the dragon thrashes in pain, a body of a young girl rolls onto the rubble through the hole in the floor. He can't tell if dead or unconscious. Maireagh runs in and tries to use her striding & springing boots to run up the small rubble pile and launch up to the floor above and attack the dragon. She rolls for it although the boots make it easy, to see how well she lands - turns out very well (athletics 19). She has a bit more movement and runs next to the dog, then attacks twice with sword. Miss and hit (damage 10). She commands the dog to run around and attack. It can't flank - tower's too small - but does a good hit (better than Maireagh! Damage 11).

The dragon looks around. It thinks the things near the ground look tasty, but Nethza is a bigger threat so it wants to shoot acid. Needs to get closer so it jumps out onto the flat roof adjacent. Opportunity attacks from Maireagh and the dog both hit (19 total damage)! So now it's on the roof - Riglan can see it - and as it's leaping out, it breathes acid at Nethza. She makes the dex save easily (good thing too - 11d8!). Low roll tho (42), half to 21. Riglan is horrified at the attack's potential but it could've been a lot worse. Nethza makes the constitution save and is able to keep Fly going. It turns and can see Temo through the roof hole, then makes good its threat to deal with the small creatures after Nethza, jumps back in onto the tower first floor and reaches down to bite. JUST misses (16 vs 17 AC). Annoyed, it swipes at Maireagh with claws, misses one in its frustration but does hit with the other.

Nethza can see zombies approaching up the hill and shouts a warning - the commotion has attracted them. She transfers her hex onto the dragon in additional to the hexblade's curse and tries Eldrich Blasts but both miss, very annoying but she'd just been hit by a tonne of acid. Riglan runs in to try and get a better look. He can see the dragon, but also the girl. He goes "mooo" softly as casting a healing word, just in case she's unconscious but not dead. The colour comes back to her skin, but she's not really coming to; her skin has terrible acid burns still, that are healing partly. He drags her away into the corner of the square room. The bird flies by for an attack. It JUST manages its strike (damage 11). The dragon starts to look around wildly, looking a bit freaked out. Temo sees this but doesn't really understand it and aims again (21), trying for the underside of its head since that's the most clear view.

The bolt flies in, piercing the dragon's skull! It stiffens for a moment - then falls with a wet thump, its head and a footslumping over the broken first floor ledge. Dead! He shouts "I *think* it's down?! Where's the other kid?". Maireagh calls us up to the first floor. The zombies are getting close but she doesn't know that. Nethza can! She throws some blasts down at two zombies which are almost at the door, staying in flight. She hits both and is out of range of their released ash. One is a crit and is taken out, it doesn't come back. The other is hurt a bit (6 damage only). Riglan tells the girl, "*stay* *here*!" and runs to the door. Opens it - Zombie only a few feet away. Throws fire, hits (11 damage). He calls the bird to attack the same one, which gets a very good hit (13 damage), taking it down.

Temo runs up stairs to Maireagh, but on the way he spots an arrow slit / hole in the tower intended to shoot at aggressors - throws a firebolt at one, hits easily (11) and carries on up and (bonus action) investigates briefly - he sees another girl, also unconscious, along with two other bodies wrapped up in spider silk. Another body is covered entirely in a weird dried flaky bark that's almost like a cocoon against the wall. Maireagh joins him, casting Cure Wounds on the girl. Nethza meanwhile is still flying and attacking zombies. The one Temo had hit is taken down. The other is a crit but it stays up (20 damage). Riglan throws fire at it, bugger all damage but manages to take it down (crit fail con save!).

He asks the bird to perch on the roof and keep watch for zombies etc., then heads up the stairs as Nethza flies in. Riglan can't make much of it. It's a random collection of silk and bark and so-on; natural materials in an unnatural arrangement. There's the beginning of a small hoard, so the dragon was trying to make its lair. The two girls wake up and are scared. Temo persuades them to calm down and quietly head back to the hiding place and keep quiet there. We do ask about the fuckery in the room first! "We've had to bring food to it today and it wasn't happy with the food that we brought - it says that we're keeping a secret from it - we've been bringing food that the spiders cocooned, raiding their nests, because all the other animals are dead; then we found this [the bark cocoon] in the woods outside and brought this and the dragon attacked us when we brought it up for him. We don't know much about it it; all we know from Favric is that this dragon was injured and we followed it and we were looking after it and be allies with it" - Riglan interrupts, "only to make it fight a giant on your behalf!" - "well, no, we were going to protect it; the giant was hunting it, we don't know why. It's called Mnemothar. It was very rude to us and really mean..." - it would tend to scratch them and drip acid on them and stuff, seemed to enjoy that. So we have a version of the convo with the other two and we tell them to get back to the house - Riglan sends the bird to keep an eye on them.

We approach the silk cocoons are animals and dead. We approach the wood bark one with caution. Next to where it was placed is a shrivelled up (spider-eaten) male half-elf wearing studded leather armour with a short-sword & belt pouch and boots, kind of adventuring kit. Temo searches the body (investigation 11+6). He finds a written scroll parchment note in the belt pouch along with an empty vial, which has a few drops of thick red liquid - healing potion by the looks of it - and some small minor valuables, which we take with intent to maybe return to a family one day if we ever can. The note says "at Thundergrove Bastion; black dragon **Venom Fang** injured; a good prize!".

As for the bark cocoon, it's atop the hoard. Lots of coins and a few other things; also an old wooden chest that's been raked (clawed) open on the floor, look like it used to be furniture on this floor. The rest of the hoard has been built around it. We carefully check the hoard first. The chrysalis/cocoon is easily moved carefully to one side. We find:

* Arcane objects
* 800 silver
* 150 gold
* 4 silver goblets decorated with moonstones
* 2 magic scrolls in thin carved ivory cases
* Rusty-looking old battleaxe which Maireagh identifies as dwarven immediately; the runes say "hew"  (as in to 'hew' at something). She touches it and shudders; Riglan casts Detect Magic and evocation and necromantic magic are on the battleaxe
* Strong evocation from one scroll, conjuration from the other - he can see one scroll is Misty Step and Temo recognises the other as Lightning Bolt
* Very weak, almost flickering magic off the cocoon/chrysalis thing.

Riglan and Maireagh will work together with the monster kit to try and get into the cocoon as gently as possible with everyone else at distance. Temo says he'd be better at it, more dexterous, so Riglan reluctantly agrees and backs away to join Nethza and the dog. Temo actually prefers his dagger and carefully starts peeling off layers with Maireagh's help. As he starts this, the two sides start to peel back of their own accord and inside, we see, apparently protected by this construct, a middle-aged human male dressed in greenish stained hide with a cape wrapped around itself holding a crook.

Riglan immediately comes forward and casts L2 healing word. He feels his staff want to help, and he feels his ability to cast some of his spells through it drop since it's already been used today for Goodberry - it asks for a 3rd level spell. Riglan casts healing through it at L3; the staff transmits this as some kind of cleansing, restorative spell, which Riglan doesn't quite recognise in detail, but he understands its nature. It's a stronger spell than he could cast himself. The wetness and jelly protections of the chrysalis fall away and the frail, almost desicated human inside looks restored. He slumps forward and we catch him. He steadies himself. He looks up, sees Riglan's staff, recognises it; Riglan goes "yes, that's right! Reidoth I presume?" - and he falls unconscious.

Nethza is scooping the hoard into the bag. Maireagh has the monster book out and is looking at the dragon. Temo and Riglan come over and figure out some kind of strategy for it (appraisal roll is good, around 19). The blood could have magic; the meat is not magical but could be tasty and lots of it. The teeth are interesting too. The scales, though, are best of all. Those could be really good. The wings are very badly damaged before we got to it and we made it a lot worse. We figure the breath pouch is too dangerous.

Temo tries to harvest with Riglan's help (bad rolls, 6 and 6 with advantage!, so despite all the modifiers of dex and nature, only 14). We get some blood, no teeth, but do get a smaller some scales, with some hide; also some claws. We get a bit of meat as well from where we took off the hide. We collect everything up, pick up Reidoth and cautiously and quietly head back to the hiding house.

The four kids agree to let Reidoth lie on the bedroll they have spare there. We decide to check out the herbalist's shop - the zombie nest - roughly midday, so light's as good as it'll ever be. Albatross familiar is still around for another hour, ish, but we're a bit tapped out so are forced to take a rest before heading out. We have lunch, sharing the food around, keeping everyone calm. Temo makes tea.

We get to the shop. No zombies. Riglan has regained Detect Magic and checks. We remember being told about the family heirloom in a case under some shelves. We dig around and find it; a beautiful gold necklace with emerald pendant. The shop is cluttered and broken up. Shelves full of books; casks, reagents, broken furniture, weeds and more. The ingredients make up a quite remarkable smell! Riglan and Temo search around. Faint magic traces in several vials. Most carry marks indicating beneficial necromancy - healing - and near the back of the shop, a trap door leading down into a cellar. The stairs are broken and part is collapsed. Old stone; some kind of buried obelisk (!) which has been pushed out from the surrounding soil and blocks whatever the stairs would've led to. The obelisk has very faint magic; maybe remnants of magic. Riglan sends down a spider; a root cellar, but much of it destroyed by the obelisk. It's lying on its side. It has writing on it but Riglan doesn't recognise any of the marks. Looks like something that would *pre-date* runes. Riglan touches it but nothing happens. We estimate that if it were upright, it'd be about 10ft tall.

For now, we take the heirloom and return to the hiding house. We need to check on Reidoth and now he's hopefully rested a bit, find out what he knows. Riglan asks how he is and why he was in that strange cocoon. He starts to answer, then kind of falters, as if trying to figure out who *we* are and what he can say. Riglan raises his hand politely to stop him. We introduce ourselves and Riglan gives a shortened version of what they've been up to and how he came about the staff. Reidoth hasn't seen that staff in so many years; memory fades, it's how the objects work. But seeing it makes him remember. "Well, then you know, about me..." and sighs - about to say that we must know the secret Daran kept - we stop him and say that, no, Daran kept the secret.

It turns out Reidoth underestimated the state of decay here. He's lost track of days so we answer the day as best we can. Riglan counts in days and seasons; he's "of the old ways", says Reidoth - not of the city. Reidoth estimates he's been unconscious for about 5 days. He saw the injured dragon arrive and that it was in pain; he let it take up residence in the tower, thinking it would heal and move on. But then people (the cultists) arrived, bringing a lot of treasure to ingratiate themselves. Something must've changed; Reidoth sensed the reawakening and renewal of the undying magic of the village. The blights started reappearing; he normally visits to suppress the magic, which is why he can't leave. He's the only thing, he thinks, able to keep it under control. He thinks the black dragon's presence corrupts and made the situation worse.

He himself is deteriorating, as if his life force is "falling through a sieve". He's not as strong as he used to be. Started about 3 months ago. When he planned to confront the dragon, by trying to push back the necrotic energies he thought it was pulling forth, he felt a rush of life leave him. He started to wither, which is why he cast the chrysalis.

Riglan explains about the feeding of the dragon, fighting people, the "hive", and the obelisk. Reidoth suggests it might've been teleported there, given the lack of apparent signs of falling or ingress damage. Perhaps it fell and was then teleported. Reidoth suggests that identification would be via a Legend Lore spell. Temo thinks he knows it, but it's level 5. Cleric or wizard. We can't cast that.

Riglan remembers the giant! Reidoth says, "there are many giants, but they tend to leave things alone; they come out to hunt. They're part of the balance of nature. They attack dragons and dragons attack them - a long standing, milennia old animosity." He does think the nearby giant seems particularly restless. Of this giant, he says, "so far, she's avoided us". Reidoth, tho, is just there to dissuade either the living or dead from trying to resettle. It's in the Evermoors; they'd be besieged by creatures on all sides. It'd be a direct conflict with nature. They're growing tho; Thundergrove Bastion used to be at the edge, but is now deep within. Reidoth must stay until the place is faded from memory.

Riglan says that's his choice, but he's concerned about Reidoth's fading health and the escalating powers. We agree to stay the night and observe.

On zombies & undead plants - blights all contain within them a piece of the Gulthias infection, which turns things into a version of the original, spiteful, evil mother tree Gulthias. Seeks to spread its influence. A sort of plant lich. He says we should go out and collect the shards of dead blights to burn them.

So we head out & gather from all the places we fought. There's a lot, making a big pile. We sweep from the outskirts back to the tower, so build the bonfire outside there. A good way to draw out any other undead! Riglan lights the pile. Strange, black, almost stone-like gnarled pieces get left behind; cords of ichor form, before themselves burning. We can see this strange corruption boiling out and being consumed by the fire. No new things emerge. Temo casts Minor Illusion trying to copy the screaming sound the blights made when the called others; still none. The fire takes a good hour to burn down. Nothing more emerges.

It's now about 3pm. We decide to head to the herbalist shop and try to levitate the obelisk; coupled with ropes and pulling, we will try to extract it and get it outside for a better look. Riglan casts the bear spirit totem; we rope the thing up; Reidoth both turns into a bear; Maireagh casts Levitate. The effective weight is now around 800lbs only (!). So we try to tug it, bolstered by the bear spirit. He can move around 700-800lb, I can move 900+lb, so plus levitate, we can drag it out of the basement (with some damage to the basement stairs and floor, but the building was badly decayed anyway).

So it's outside. We drag it up the hill towards the tower and leave it in bushes; if zombies come back to it and get drawn there, they'll be easier to spot on the hill. Reidoth is weakened. "Maybe I'm asking too much for a 2nd turn...". Riglan tries to ask his staff - "if rested, would you be able to help?" - but the staff gives an impression that it's nature. A cycle of life and death. It's implying old age. Riglan indicates that maybe things here are settling and he might be able to return at least briefly to town; he says he does miss a few things, including Qelline's bread. That reminds us! We give him the loaf. Riglan reminds Reidoth that the *place* might be forgotten, but *he* is not.

He talks of magic and balance, and sources; Riglan and he the Fey. He mentions to Nethza that she too pulls from another plane; the Shadow Fell. This freaks Nethza out; he confirms it from her aura and other aspects; but it's not an evil *place*, it's a place that *contains evil* within it. It's a mirror of the fey wild. She should not be ashamed or afraid of it. It protects all the other planes.

"Don't think for a minute that everything in the Fey Wild is good. Evil is everywhere. But so is good!" - almost all planes have balance. Only some are almost caricatures; all good, or all evil; Arcadia, or the Nine Hells; but they balance each other when seen as a whole. "For everything that is up, there is a down - and it's not our place to judge".

As the day moves on, he asks if Riglan would like to go on a hunt. Riglan mentions the lack of food or animals - but Reidoth is suggesting plants and knows places. Riglan remarks as they leave how humbled / proud he is of his groups bravery; Nethza says she feels stronger with us as a group. We all feel it.

The hunting and foraging goes well, including grouse. There's a fire, we cook, it's good. The four kids are starting to finally feel more safe and realising that nobody's controlling them now.

There's a combination of watch on the house and patrol around town. Maireagh and dog go first. Nethza and Temo are next. All good so far. Finally Reidoth and Riglan, the two druids. Roll a 3 (+9) and 5 (+8). Sigh. We don't see anything. The kids confirm that the zombies go in and out at night from the herbalist shop. Nothing. We check the obelisk. Nothing again. Riglan does spot one owl and we see a few fireflies, so there's evidence of normal returning life. The mist/fog layer seems to be dissipating too.

We chat - about the change of weather over the Spine which Reidoth missed; about Riglan's clan and woods; he likes the different perspective. He's essentially ancient and very experienced but potentially a little set in his viewpoints. Riglan is all youthful, inexperienced, perhaps naive but full of ideas and optimism. He asks how Riglan might see cultures working together; what's the role of towns, or cities - Riglan's never been - kingdoms. He talks about it a bit. He says some druids work out of cities, some to try and protect the cities, sometimes to try and help them coexist. Riglan mentions Golden Fields - another extreme; highly productive food centres as an example of how things could be done and reduce pressure on conventional farming. "Then of course there are those at Shadow Top" - he says Riglan must see it - it's where Turlang lives, one of the oldest Treants - surprisingly cantankerous and impatient! Worth a visit.

They head out to a clearing. The moon is in the sky. They stand in the moonlight. He takes out a small sprig and adds it to the staff. He says he's glad the staff has found Riglan. Someone new to continue the story, not ending with himself. Riglan is "now added as a new leaf in our tree". He takes out a pin - "would you be a **Spring Warden**? Would you guard the things that would grow? The possibilities that would happen and the lives that would evolve? Would you nurture in the spring of its life the seed that would be the world forest if given nourishment, protection, time and love?" - Riglan says of course, well, he's been trying to do it already. Reidoth takes off his brown, wooly cloak and wraps it around Riglan, pinning it. "**Then I welcome you, Riglan, to the Emerald Enclave**".

Woah. "I'll try my best. I promise".

He suggests Riglan visit one of the two other Enclave centres - either Golden Fields or Shadow Top Cathedral, to learn from other members and they can learn from him. Especially Shadow Top! He's a big fan of that. They can explain about the Circle Of Alluvium, the Planar Circle and Nature's Chosen. They relate to the three tenets of the Enclave - respectively - the balance between civilised and natural world, within often cities and governments, e.g. Golden Fields; study unnatural and otherworldly threats to nature and keeping an eye on and curtailing the destructive use of magic and intrusions from other planes; and finally those most in tune with nature, usually devoted to a particular nature entity, and/or they believe that nature is a divine force in and of itself - the protect the wilds. Shadow Top is an example. They're the barbarians, rangers, the primal forces.

The sun rises as their patrol ends. We head back to the house.

## DAY 41

Reidoth explains that he'll take it from here; he needs to stay and check on things. He gives us some rare flowers for Qelline. Riglan gives him a kind of awkward goodbye hug.

"Enjoy it. I hope we meet again sometime! But if not, it's been fun."
"Take care, young Spring Warden."

We head back towards Deepgarden Keep.
