# Gnog: Part 8

We're in our newly-rented apartment on Ravnica in Precinct Four of District Ten.

# Day 22 (Riglan 59 - 6 hours shifted forward)

In the morning we head to Precinct Two, intending to register. We leave at around 8am. We head along the Transguild Promenade, looking to join South of Sunhome to avoid all the in-out security. It's wider and we could get a cart/caravan but choose to walk because it's all new still. On the way across Precinct Four, there are soldiers fixing armour, families waving them goodbye as they head to work; various homeless are curled up in doorways. A young street urchin is singing and playing a 3-stringed lute. It's missing a string. There's a hat in front. It contains a few coppers. Taz throws in ten coppers (a silver) and says, "do you play here all day?" "Oh my goodness, thank you kind sir. I do play here all day, yes, except when I help some of the other kids who are younger than me." Taz says, "well, if we're lucky enough to see you when we come back, I'll be able to enjoy your playing again. Have a good day."

Taz asks the party to keep an eye out of for a shop that might sell lute strings as we continue on our way.

A leatherworker on the promenade carries a huge basket of flowers on his back. A small cart is dragged along by a mechanical contraption; a construct of sorts, but then it seems to break down. Two goblins jump off and try to fix it. Taz offers to help - intelligence plus proficiency, surprisingly good roll, dirty 20 total - "it's too hot" says one goblin, but the other disagrees and wants to heat it up. Taz sees that a chain has fallen off part of the mechanism; he wraps it back, secures it and the goblins give it another try. The strange construct coughs back into life. The call thanks as they head off - "come and find us at the laboratory some time!" - and one throws a **card** back at Taz. **They're experimenters with the Izzit league, in Precinct Six.**

We cross over into Precinct One as we continue to follow the road. We descend onto a massive plaza, hundreds of feet long and 200ft or so wide, full of people (Tenth District Plaza). Various soldiers are lined up. There are arching banners of white, blue and silver. They aren't dressed as Boros guards; they're in plate mail plated white with blue (rather than red) with blue headcovers, almost like tight hoods. He notes that no matter what kind of race these people seem to be, their eyes are a uniform silver - he can't tell where they're looking. It's not clear what they're even doing. Walking past, one holds out a hand and a forcefield stops us in our tracks.

"You are entering Precinct One, home of the Guild Pact Promenade. Please stow all of your weapons; nothing may be carried openly nor sheathed."

Gnog is confused as we were in our finest clothing already not carrying stuff - ah, but Deni has knives... Everything is stowed in bags. As we continue along, we see a giant church to the West - the central decorative spire might be 600ft tall?! It's hard to comprehend, but Gnog realises it's the structure we saw in the portal last night (it's the Orzhova). Above ground the building is maybe 200ft above ground with the steeple rising a further 400ft. We get the impression that it continues underground as well (unbeknownst to us, about another 100ft down in various levels). Next to it is the main bank (Vizkopa Bank), these collossal buildings together covering hundreds of feet length and depth.

We reach what the map says is the Chamber Of The Guildpact, a strange domed/spherical style building supported on ten giant legs. As we get up and alongside, we see an exit sign to "Augustin Station", which we can see from the map takes us to Precinct Two. We can see that it's a huge airship station. While Precinct One was full of mostly civic buildings, often huge, there weren't that many houses that we saw; Precinct Two is full of houses and shops, especially as we drop down to street level after getting past the Station. It's quite busy with very wide streets. There are some large creatures that look like small dinosaurs; brontosaurus-shaped, mottled colouring of blue and green, that seem to be beasts of burden, like horses. They take up nearly half the wide street width - 10-15ft. This is the district of Whitestone - white limestone, white marble, impeccably clean, grand looking and very "proper". Ahead across the Precinct is the impossibly huge New Prahv. To the left from our perspective, a tall fortified wall seems to separate Whitestone from the neighbourhood behind it, at a higher level. We walk past a statue of "**The Great Agrus Kos, the Wojek Veteran who saved the Guildpact**". There are plaques saying "Prahv Destroyed by the Crashing of the Parhelion in the Times of Trouble" on an area that seems to be rebuilt on top of ruins, of which some remain. Next to that, then, New Prahv. The three giant triangular buildings rising almost impossibly high from the main central structure alone tower - around 450ft above a central plaza, raised somewhat itself above the walls of the wider block of the main building below, some 150ft, which we had ascended via a switchback path. This structure just reaches higher than the steeple. A waterfall cascades down the face of each of the three. The bases are built as motes, funnelling the water into the central depression / plaza which has various other cascades and decorative drops eventually reaching a pool a few stories down.

A sign reads, "**Welcome to New Prahv, home of the Azorius Senate**". It has taken an hour, about half of that on the promenade but the rest just getting to it and from it. We are at the base of the towers, at the heart of New Prahv. The party does have a moment taking it all in; it's far bigger than one could ever conceive a building might need to be, excessively dramatic and implausible to think that it could ever have been constructed or stand under its own weight without collapsing at all - for all that - it is truly breathtaking. There is a surprising sense of tranquility and balance; harmony; but also, control. Somehow this place is more static than dynamic, despite the waterfalls.

"I'm never going to be able to explain this to anyone... Nobody would ever believe me", says Gnog. That said, the Torril Academy tower was an impossible 2000ft tall, so this sort of scale isn't without precedent!

Someone spots us and asks what we might be looking for - we explain, 10th District resident registration. We're told that we should look for the **Jelenn Column** - he motions at one of the three towers. Taz explains that each tower corresponds to a column of the Azorius Senate. Jelenn is about writing, enacting and maintaining the many layers of laws of Ravnica. The other two are the **Sova Column** - the court system, pretty much - and **Lyev Column**, which has some mystery about its purpose. The entrance is guarded with no public access.

Taz leads, chatting happily with Gnog in tow. Fee-Ree is next; Deni as usual skulks somewhat at the rear of our group, ever-alert.

Entering the building, we go into a very wide, circular hall. They seem to be big on triangles and circles at the Senate. Threes. As we get further in, we can see that there's some kind of atrium extending maybe 60ft up, surrounded by interior circular balconies with various rooms behind, which we surmise must therefore mostly in volume occupy the corners of the tower. At the top of the atrium seems to be a glass floor - we can see people walking over it - but the column of light continues, apparently all the way up to the top.

We spot a soldier and two clerical-looking people apparently ushering people in various directions. One cleric, with blue skin and no hair, is accompanied by a homunculus. The other looks human and has an owl sitting on their shoulder. Gnog and Taz approach the blue-skinned cleric. Variety is the spice of life! The species, Taz recognises, is **Vedalken**. She is tall and slender - a little taller than Gnog. "Welcome to the Jelenn Column of the Azorius Senate. What is it you need to do today?" "Register as residents please!" She looks around, draws some glyphs in the air, pulls them out and asks who speaks for us. "Who speaks for you?" "I suppose... Me?" says Gnog. He's ask to hold out a wrist; he holds out his right wrist and the runes are transferred to his wrist, encircling it, hovering. We are directed to a location on the 3rd floor. "New Entrants To The Tenth District". She finishes with "Be at peace!".

We thank her and follow the directions. We see other Azorius people, many seemingly accompanied by various unusual creatures. Reaching the relevant part of the third floor, we enter a quite large hall. Several desks with people sat at them are arrayed along either side. It's somewhat cavernous, 25ft to the ceiling and perched on a balcony overlooking everything, which we walk underneath to enter, is a sphynx, simply observing.

There are several 'free' desks and we are ushered in to be seated at one. "Do you consent to telling the truth?" "Yes" says Gnog. As he sits, he feels the effect of a zone of truth (and allows himself to be controlled by that). It's a long wait - it feels like a quarter of an hour or so has passed. Eventually a human arrives and sits on the opposite side of the desk.

While registering, there's a neat trick done where they magically just make us aware of the laws of the district. It means we can never plead ignorance! Gnog checks with Taz; it did work for him too. We do also get told that our registration gets verified with the Lyev Column, which tells us that they are probably internal security / a secret police kind of outfit. A while later, a blue light lights up above a slot in the wall. A table of people are let go.

Gnog, perception 26. Our slot lights amber! Various guards quietly arrive and flank us. The human says that there seems to be a bit more to our "case", but he's been instructed to have us escorted to the Lyev Column for further questioning. He tries to allay our inevitable fears, but does say that nonetheless - "Welcome to the Tenth District" - and does give all four of us some kind of runic bracelet, which we can activate to show runes around the wrist; these identify us as registered. So we're registered *but* there's something up with the Lyev.

The five soldiers escort us back out and over to a platform which *floats* out to travel across the Lyev Column, where it 'docks' in a slot in a balcony. Different guards from this side flank us. They seem more like mages than armoured - robes, circlets; Vedalken species. This column is very different - no big central lightwell, more of a spiralling ramp all the way up the middle with only a small shaft of light penetrating down from above. We're led into a chamber where there are three people who look again quite mage-like; a human, Vedalken and a being that seems to be made partly of light. Glowing and radiant. They seem fascinated by a large pool of water in the centre of the chamber. We're told to "head up to speak to the Precogs".

Gnog says, "Hello, I'm Gnog. What can we do for you?"

"Interesting. When we checked your names, we have records of possible things we think you're going to do and we'd like to ask you some questions about them!" Deni objects. We can't answer questions about things we haven't yet done. They explain that it's a new thing for them; they're not saying we've done something wrong, but they are unsure about what some things they see mean. They don't know which of the futures are true, but some will be. They show us strands, like Seraphina's strands of memory, plucked from the pool. It reminds us also of the time we were taken to the Shaowfell and shown alternate universe versions of ourselves.

"In one of these, you commit mass murder." Another says, "Yes but that is an uncertain future." The third says, "You have a bewildering number of possible alternate branching futures. This is why you are flagged."

Taz starts to explain about Fee-Ree's husband, the event of 7 years ago etc.; persuasion 19. Gnog, perception 16, hears the three mutter "the conflagration at Nivix". Gnog waits for Taz then jumps in, "And we heard that there was a similar event here on Ravnica at the Izzit League. Now, you have the - well, possibly, who universe's foremost authority here on these matters and it was in their own laboratory where this happened, so we were hoping to find out information on whether this was considered something that was external and caused the event you experienced, or perhaps was an experiment gone awry which propagated out externally.

Two of the precogs explain in unison - each speaking parts of a sentence - that people had to be dispatched to Nivix to contain damage from the explosion, but they never found a straight answer. **Niv Mizzet has not been seen in public for 3 years now**. He has not left us, though, unlike the Living Guild Pact. He shows us an image of Niv Mizzet in a large tower. There is some debate about this vs the Guild Pact.

We're shown another future. We are in a battle, subduing - attacking - a human male wizard wearing blue and white patterned robes wearing a cowl over their head. The patterns aren't like anything we've seen here on Ravnica. The cowl is thrown back; a youngish human face, pale silvery eyes, black hair; it turns into four versions of itself, like a Mirror Image spell; Deni cuts through some with a dagger, before it eventually ends under the neck of one that remains, a drop of blood breaks free, the eyes going from silver back to a normal greyish-green. The persons eyes go wide; Deni steps back; a long Dirk sticks out of the person's back and they collapse. We can't see where that comes from.

There is debate. Did we murder this person? It is the living guild pact! His silver eyes are known for when he is casting, so it might not have been possession. We cannot honestly say if we would ever kill him. But if we did, it could only be if he was somehow plotting some great evil.

A silence cone is cast. "We don't have long. The person who processed you flagged your names. We don't know how they knew who you were. We've been waiting for you! We wanted to get you first. We are not the same as some of the other nests of precogs here, who are more zealous and confident in what they see. The three of us recognise the great power that it can wield but very wary and sceptical about the use of it to enforce laws which a growing segment of the Lyev column appears to now be doing. People are being arrested based off precognitive visions. We intend to destroy these visions. We need you to promise us that you will keep our counsel and keep in touch to help us understand what it is were are unravelling here. We believe it is the start of something very significant. We don't know where this goes because we don't understand the actions involved. Neither do you, yet. This is why it's so dangerous. Until we can understand *why* someone might do something we do not know how to interpret *what* we see."

Gnog asks, "How do we keep in touch?"

"We visit a meditation room and nude art class in the Precinct Two... If you have information, that is where you'll find us. We go whenever there is a nude life painting class." - we get the address.

Gnog starts to talk about the Voda but the silence spell starts to fail. We'll have to talk again in future. The scrying pool can show us more, but they consider it an unsolvable crime. Evidence was removed they think. The silence shield falls... Some other time.

Gnog picks up his voice a bit and says, "I hope that allays concerns?" "We never really had *concerns* we just wanted to understand." We are ushered out. Deni comments that this didn't go *at all* the way she'd expected. No, indeed. Where, even, is safe to talk, Gnog wonders? 

Fee-Ree asks if anyone else has a real issue with that approach of looking into the future? Gnog thinks that the idea of arresting people on such a basis borders on the obscene. It's also a strange feeling of invaded privacy to be scryed thus. Deni is disturbed by the consideration that we might have been predetermined to have decided to be registered; the precogs were already. If we'd not registered, they knew of us anyway and would have been watching.

We exit New Prahv. We head to a more lived-in area called Griffon Heights. Upmarket, so we're hopeful about lute strings - and indeed find a magic shop. We pick up some spare lute strings for a zib. Wandering around somewhat aimlessly through the streets, Taz later spots an even more beautiful music shop - "**Courtesan Of The Empire**" - which has a **Rhythm-Maker's Drum** there, which he spots. He gets quite animated and points at it and asks if we can afford it! We decide to go for it, so Taz has a new toy. He gets a length of rope and fashions a sort of belt that leave the drums at hands-reach on his left side, but he can spin it out of the way if needed. Gnog remarks that if there was ever any remaining doubt, Taz is definitely officially a fourth party member now, since we've since just blown a tonne of gold on something that helps us all.

It's still quite early, about 10:30, so Gnog suggests we have overdue business in the Sixth and although it's a long walk, we could retrace our steps to find the lute player from earlier in the day, then either find an early lunch in our 'home' precinct or make our way over to find Vi and maybe have a chat with the goblins whose card we hold.

We head that way. It's 11:15 by the time we find the lute player. Taz wants to demonstrate how to replace the string so the kid can do this himself; his first effort though goes poorly (performance nat 2 + 8) - the kid can't see what he did - so he tries again - 16 this time, good enough to give the child the idea how to restring things. We hand over the spare strings and he treats us to a song on his repaired lute.

It's a slightly melancholy tune; one that he wrote, apparently, about friends that come and go. You never know what happened to them. Did they find fortune and leave, move on to a different place, did they meet a grisly end? Were they alone or with loved ones? That kind of thing. These are the things that kids on the street think, in the morning, the evening and the middle of the night. But who thinks of the street kids?

He bows and we applaud. Taz says that maybe one day if he has the courage he might try to play for someone who runs a smaller tavern, perhaps to find an early gig as a bard for real, since he seems to have a gift for it. Ravnica laws would require him to be older before being paid, of course!

Gnog notes as we walk around that there is a lot going on in the air of District Four. Griffon riders, but especially near Sunhome, more angels. He tries to get the attention of one by asking Taz to do a minor illusion of downward-pointing hand that points towards us. Gnog tries to persuade one to come down. (Persuasion with luck point, 22). A smaller, younger angel flies down, seeming curious. He asks what the hand is and Taz explains that it is an illusion spell. But why? Gnog explains that we're new to the area and asks why there are so many angels. We're told that the Boros Legion was founded by an Archangel and is run by angels. There are two tiers of troopes - the angelic troops and the humanoid troops. They used to have **Parehelion**, a mobile flying fortress populated and operated entirely by angels, but after the chaos and calamities of the Decamillennail celebration it had gone on a mission & when it came back it shifted into the plane too close to the city, crashing into Prahv. This was in part the reason for the precog branch as it was a terrible disaster at the time.

Deni mentions that she'd like to start answering questions instead of just gaining more of them! **She suggests a library**. This is great idea. We'll get to that once we're done with Precinct Six.

We go through the bulwark, reaching a canal in our now-typical formation of Taz, Gnog, Fee-Ree and Deni; it's usually too busy to walk anything other than single file. We ascend onto the top and use it to cross the canal. Our elevation gives us a better view of Nivix, which seems constantly lit from within by lights, lightning and more; it seems to be a confusing mix of connected buildings. Some even seem to connect at elevation, in a constant arc of lightning. We saw a storm cloud over the top spire before; but we see that it has the same now and think that this might be a permanent feature. Gnog tries to see what's in the canal but he can't see anything inside there; it's just dark, but that's quite odd. Perhaps the water is dirty. Or perhaps there isn't even water?

We exit the bulkwark and pass under the larger overhanging tower extending out of Nivix, with on our right giant buttresses that hold stone arches supporting the building. Nivix seems surrounded by a deep moat, but again, he can't see water there either. It just seems to be a deep channel. Occasional bridges span the gap, just like with the canal. We reach Tin Street. It's another raised road, similar to but less ornamental/beautiful as the Transguild Promenade. There is a way underneath - signs say "Smelting Quarter" and "Foundry Street"; we could use the bulwark; or we could use Tin Street itself. Vi's address is in the Smelting Quarter, so we follow the sign and go underneath.

We see that lining the street are shops, accessible from ground level or the top. They sell weapons, armour, adventuring supplies and more; it looks relatively mid-to-low range. There are various services too, e.g. for transport. We reach a large gatehouse or fortress of some kind, which seems to mark the end of the Fourth District proper. It takes a while to figure out our way through - 15 minutes or so - then eventually exit out into District Six proper, at street level. There are no signs here! We're almost immediately a bit lost. We know we've descended somewhat inside the strange gatehouse building but now, we see it's further than we thought - it least 60ft, with a bounding 100ft high wall looming around. The air hangs low with smog here. There is a confusing array of winding streets leading in all directions. Some buildings look big but are only a storey or two high. Others look small but are somehow 3-4 stories. We are blocking the way and have to step to one side as people are coming in and out; it's a busy industrial area.

Gnog, perception 17; about a block away, is what looks like a bit of a square which might have signpost in it. He points and the group head that way. It's a question of pushing through throngs of people. There are strange railway cars that seem to have no engine - self-propelled. The movement is a bit erratic. As we get close to one, we see about ten pairs of legs! It seems that the people inside the railway car are moving it - carrying it, perhaps.

We get to the square, realising that it's actually a hexagon shape. Traffic moves around it. In the middle is a sign, rotating. As the sign reaches alignment with the streets the signs on it change. It seems a bit pointless to have it only show useful information for some of the time. Stood underneath is a human, with golden-brown skin, holding two large cases with handles. He's dressed like a merchant, carrying on his back a third case of some kind. He looks confused. We get across the traffic to the centre and greet him, noting that the sign is indeed a bit confusing. Taz and Deni wait and for it to align with streets, and note that this tells us directions; but the merchant isn't finding a club he wants on there. He ends up going to **The Gore House, the Guildhall of the Rakdos**, to ask. Gnog makes a mental note, heh!

Deni spots the sign saying "Smelting District and Foundry Street" briefly - she points to one of the six streets and we head that way. Along the way we see two Boros soldiers, without capes and weapons sheathed, off duty we think, a male and female holding hands. There are lots more shops - foundries, smithies, leather working shops and more. Quite a few invention shops and Izzit labs. Gnog spots one leather working shop that has straps and more interesting kit - he wants to get the outfit from his fun time at the club before! One looks particularly good, "**Tanned Und Beaten**" so - and it takes some convincing - persuasion 18 - his party agree to tolerate him having a look inside.

Inside is a half-orc with tanning fluid-stained gloves and goggles. He greets us, taking off his gloves and lifting the goggles. He's actually pretty good looking! "I am **Mr Warwick Beaten**. This is my shop. I make all of these myself!" Gnog explains his strange experience at The Pain Club and says that it's about the outfit. "Ah! Do not be embarrassed! You are looking for our *speciality exotic items*" - and pulls back a leather curtain, inviting Gnog in. There's every kind of fetish gear, some of which looks like it could be functional, but other stuff that clearly isn't! The half orc sizes up Gnog and pulls out some items, with thicker or thinner belts, some with lots of buckles and rings, some with studs. There are accompanying codpieces and suchlike, even ones with Roman-style skirting. Gnog chooses one with a thicker style, studs, but D-rings which he thinks could actually be functional; a shoulder piece is suggested by the half-orc which clips on; there's a codpiece style matching item but also Gnog had liked the strange armoured skirt look of the angels so he goes with that as well, which clips onto the codpiece belt. This has leather leaves but with folded brass edges. It's perhaps more showy than Gnog expected - there front leather leaf is missing, because the codpiece is there, but Gnog figures he could always just turn it around 45 degrees if he wanted. The half-orc shows an alternative codpiece with scalemail on it; that's totally over the top and just what he wanted! So he's keen on the bulldog harness, shoulder piece, skirt and mail codpiece. It's all black, for maximum intimidation!

We agree on 30gp; he'll take everyday gold (and weights it) so we don't need to blow a lot of zinos. Gnog figures if nothing else, he'd be able to put on quite a fight show back in Waterdeep to entertain people. Deni points out that he can just wear it, if that's what he wants to do; it's decent enough, at least for Ravnica. Gnog considers it. He's grown more used to being a little overheated all the time in his clothes of repairing at Waterdeep, but it's not like he needs armour and it'd be more in keeping. He thinks about.

Gnog thanks the half-orc sincerely, since this is actually quite a big deal in terms of his personality and showmanship that he might exhibit if he chose. The half-orc talks about his shop name a bit - his old business partner was Mr Tanned - pronounced "Tann-Edd" - but it works well as a shop name. He notices in particular Deni's outfit - compliments on its craftsmanship - and can't work out the leather kind either. He asks about it and Deni is forced to be evasive for obvious reasons. We do assure him that the creature from which it came was doing great evil, but is doing it no more!

He asks what we're doing here - we explain about Vi and the goblins, showing the address. Apparently that takes us deeper into "Krenko's territory", which has been more unruly of late and has been keeping the Boros busy. Gnog has a change of heart and *does* decide to put on his new revealing outfit - it leaves nothing to the imagination and might dissuade people from fooling with us. It feels good, Gnog can't help but admit. For anyone looking and into that aesthetic, frankly, it looks outstanding - although Gnog is slightly short and slightly light-of-build by Golaith standards and, to boot, average looking facially, he's still 7.5ft and 300lb of battle-hardened, lean, ripping muscle, now dressed in tight-fitting straps of beautifully crafted and beautifully revealing leather, a jockstrap style codpiece, leather skirt for at least a bit of modesty, mid-calf fur-top boots - and absolutely nothing else. Even his beloved fur pelt is carefully stowed away. If he rages, the sudden all-body muscle pump and vascularity would look insane. People will either be attracted or afraid. Either is good.

Aided by directions, we try for Vi's place. It's on Foundry St, in the same section of the precinct that we're in, but towards its Southern edge. As we head that way, we see large warehouses; some seem to have dwellings built within - apartments inside, basically. Even more workshops and some very large factories - at least 4 stories - come into view. Later, graffiti - Krenko! - repeated over and over. In some areas it has been painted over but as we go deeper, people haven't bothered. We surmise that this is a way to mark range of territory.

Coming out of one of the tenament warehouses is a group of 3 apparent-labourers, that look like they're headed out after work looking for fun. There are makeshift markets around; some sells tools, others trinkets, others sell mechanical parts. Taz browses briefly but finds nothing of use for maintenance. Finally, a sign! "Foundry St", with an arrow. It leads us to - by this area's standards - a 20ft wide street, more than the usual <= narrow 10ft we've been in so far here, flanked on both sides by very large factories, edge to edge. Sometimes a tiny building is squeezed in between factories. One or two are crumbled, allowing a de facto alleyway to form but it's the exception rather than the rule. One sign points down the road and reads, "Chasmcliff" - that sounds like fun, but first, Vi!

Deni and Taz try to find the right buildings. Taz (investigation 15) finds a numbering system, but the number of digits is fewer than the address we have. Deni looks over to the Chasmcliff end, and realises that we're at the wrong end of the street and need to walk down to larger numbers. It's going to be a long walk. Gnog adv. (he's tall) survival 19. Other than the odd human or minotaur, almost everyone is short - yet we've seen no dwarves. There are gnomes and a lot of goblins. On some smoke stacks further in, we see an unusual sign painted - "Free Krenko". There's a Boros office nearby, with the Boros Legion sign and banner (red fist, white background) - but graffitied over it is once again Free Krenko. The windows are smashed and there is evidence of a fire or fireball around. Inside, it looks burned out. We surmise that the Boros may have got Krenko into custody but there has been retaliation.

Gnog notices that people are giving us some strange looks. They seem wary but some of the goblins seem to be eyeing us up, as if assessing our intent. We seem to be making good progress because, in part, the numbers jump - we assume that the building fronts here have a lot of dwellings or businesses within. The numbers on each side don't quite line up either (e.g. 105 on one side, 88 on the other). We follow the busy and winding street but Gnog is growing uneasy. Deni has drawn alongside and pulled Fee-Ree alongside, and Gnog warns Taz that there might be trouble. Deni says, "I think something's happening..." - and we see groups of goblins gathering together on either side of us and moving forward to confront us. One is about 12 strong, another 18 strong.

Gnog halts and welcomes them. "Hello all, how we can we help you today?" One steps forward, wearing a leather tunic and cloth pants, with what look like pocket watch chains; he wears a sort of top hat, but half height. He says, "You're in Krenko territory. What are you doing here?" Gnog replies, "we've been asked to deliver a letter to the mother of a friend of ours, on Foundry St, and we also though we'd visit some goblin friends that we helped on the Transguild Promenade that were having some engine trouble." Gnog shows him the card. We get told we're in the wrong place, but Gnog reminds him that we're going to see Vi first; we're asked the address; Gnog tells him the number. Perception 26. They stiffen up. "What?" says one. "Huh? No, no they're different..." says an older goblin to the leader. "OK. Have you seen any Boros since you arrived?" "Only the burned out place at the top of the street..." "But have you been followed?" We can't be sure. What? We're told to follow them. They start smoking pipes, creating a cloud of smoke around us. We're led into a factory. The gates are hurriedly closed. Lights are turned off. We're led up stairs on the inside wall. There are various small buildings on the factory floor. We reach a raised metal catwalk and we're led to a door. The old goblin pokes Gnog. Gnog asks what's going on.

"Well... Have you been here before?" "I think it's probably obvious that it's a 'no'!" "It's going to be hard to explain. You're looking for the Fixers, Vi. The gnome. The female gnome. A planeswalker. She's not from here." "Oh! You understand such things. Well - we aren't from here either, if you catch my drift." "Yes, but people know you're here. Someone knows you're here. You can't meet Vi, because she's been taken! We're going to you to the Fixer's Office, but she was taken two nights ago." The leader says "Yes, eyewitnesses say she was taken by a whiteish blue-skinned giant with tattoos all over him in black, a female Viashino in a blue robe, a small gnome made of metal and a young female in a cloak and red leather."

Gnog says, "Well, do you know what, that sounds remarkably like us. But here's the thing. We only landed the late night two days ago..." "Yes, she was taken at about 3am". "We were in the Seraph's Rest. But I suppose we can't really prove that unless the owners were watching us closely enough to be sure we didn't leave. All we can say is that you have our word it wasn't us and we'd say that under a Zone Of Truth. In fact, we *had* to say such things when we registered today - unless we defeated your district security, we couldn't possibly have committed a crime." We show our registration. But they know it wasn't us anyway.

We learn that Vi, while from Eberron originally, actually has a *home* in **none other than Sigil** although she spends plenty of time here, especially more recently, the last few years. We are told about her Grand Plan; she enacts elements of it with the different groups of adventurers in The Fixers. The Fixers is really just an umbrealla term she uses for hiring these adventurer groups.

Krenko is indeed in custody with the Boros but they have a plan to break him out!

Krenko's group don't know much about the rest of the city but know a lot about their own precinct. There are four guilds with presence, including the Izzit. All four are overstepping their intended areas of influence; it's throwing things out of balance.

* The Boros should not have arrested Krenko because, though not aligned with any guilds, the crime here is really just small time, no deaths, petty theft to survive in markets etc. all within this precinct and only against visitors. It doesn't disturb balance and indeed could be seen as part of the prior balance of this area. The Boros instead marched here in force, arresting Krenko - he wasn't hidden, there was never any need.

* The Rakdos are up to something too. They get more brazen. They're acting out, doing more of the whole orgy thing, way more; they've been dumping their dead into Deadbridge Chasm - a lot more mortalities than there used to be. Not knowing when to stop. In one night, from the Gore House, they saw a dozen bodies being discarded. But they are even more popular than they ever have been! Gnog thinks that if we see the marketing / trader guy from the signpost again, we might offer a warning against going too far.

* The Golgari who inhabit the chasm have started wandering out. Their normal role is to, well, recycle - they handle the sewers, waste and the dead; they "live" under the city (this is why Gnog detected so many undead in his ritual near Vitu Ghazi) in massive networks. But more recently, they seem to have branched out into assassination! They don't know if it's related to things across the chasm at Midori Park, where it seems like a *fifth* faction might be trying to push their way into Precinct Six as the Orzhov Syndicate has been buying up large tracts of land which further skews balance. They bought the then-park Midori Park and built a huge factory on it hundreds of years ago, but that was all until recently. In the last few months they've been on a buying spree. There have been battles between groups of undead, too, the Golgari they think battling Orzhov undead. This in turns has led to increasing Boros presence there, too.

It's a now-familiar tale of things escalating and potentially spiralling out of control. The old goblin comments that "if only the Living Guild Pact were still here..."

We're walking as we do this, being led on these high gangways between various factories that cross via doors between buildings. Krenko's gang appear to control *almost* all of the buildings along this street. We walk between 13 different buildings in all over various levels before being taken down into a small loading bay between two big buildings, at the back. They go to a door, dig around, find some lever and pull it. The door swings open inwards; we are ushered in first. We realise that this is Vi's workshop.

"We've barely been in to have a look around, but seeing as how you're people who look like you're the suspects here, we thought you might be able to figure something out."

Gnog and Taz look around; Taz inspires Deni and Gnog. Gnog's advantage perception plus inspiration is 25+3 total. Deni investigation also gets 25+6, for 31.

* There is absolutely no sign of struggle.
* There was no break in.
* Nothing has been ransacked.
* Deni finds a money box and lockbox. Nothing has been opened or taken.
* We don't see any gaps on tables or in bookcases indicating any taken invention or plan.
* There are no traces of poison, sleeping powder or so-on.
* We deduce that she must've left willingly or she was magically knocked out.

This is confusing and Gnog asks for confirmation about the witnesses described. The older goblin says that scouts saw four people looking like us enter, then leave with a large bag; Vi was missing after that; presume Vi in bag. They went in and out of the main front door. Magical knock-out might seem the leading possibility there.

Taz notices something a bit out of place... "What is that?" Gnog's tall enough to look closely. There are a number of geometric-looking marks on the wall. Deni asks to be boosted up. It's been a while, but Gnog puts her on his shoulders. "Oh! That's odd. How strange... What?! This is Thieve's Cant. It says 'dear Gnog, if you are reading this, please exit, knock on the front door and come in that way. All will be explained. Vi."

Gnog mutters something of which people overhear only a few words - "interplanar", "time travel" and "bullshit", and stomps off to go to the front door with *everyone* else in two. He shouts as he's walking, "Maybe it really *was* us that met Vi, but she wasn't necessarily in that bag. It just hasn't happened yet." He gets to the front door and knocks. The door opens and we are greeted by a bright purple-haired Gnome, hair curled up and twisting, wearing sapphire crystal glasses and thin gold metal frames and tiny lenses on hinges around the sides. She has a smart steampunk-y outfit and has leather straps across her holding various tools. Gnog says, "Nice to meet you Vi - glad we haven't killed you yet!" "Well, ha! Of course not. You have a message for me. Would you like to come in. Just the four of you." She waves to the very, very confused goblins. "It's OK, it's alright! I'll catch up with you all later. It's nice to see you care!" and we go inside.

She has prepared tea with five cups already and pours cups. There are tiny biscuits. Gnog looks over to see if the corner thing is out of place; it's back in place. He tells Deni.

"OK. I know there's some explaining to do, but there's one last thing. Come on! Have the cookies. I just baked them."

We eat and have the tea. Gnog hands over the letter from Beevi - Vi reads it and seems happy. Then she checks a pocket watch, looks alarmed and says "Finish your tea! We have to go" - she gets a large sack, tells us to hold it open and she climbs inside. She asks us to go back all the way round to the first warehouse we were in, but go via Foundry Street in full view, carrying the sack. "And can you remember to pull that latch on the inside before you pull the door shut? It locks it" - it's like the back door - "oh, does anyone have Mage Hand?" and although we don't, we manage anyway to push aside a box - the one that was out of place - and see the Cant script on the wall behind it. Then we have to leave.

We do so. Deni looks confused. Other goblins are following us. As we go, Gnog tries to explain. "I think I suddenly figured it out - it's like precog, only real. It's a time thing. The goblins saw 2 days ago what we just did now; probably some device or some magic triggered in the workshop which is why we had to leave when we did. I don't understand though why we now repeat what happened 2 days ago by walking down the street. So something's confusing still." Muffled from the sack, "You've got it half right - it is about the precogs..." so Gnog assumes that maybe this is a method of misdirection.

At the warehouse, a few goblins run up and we're asked to wait a moment before the door reopens - just enough for us to get inside. Inside are some slightly grumpy goblins, the leader and older guy as before. "WHAT is going on?!" - they lead us inside back into a town hall area. Vi asks to be let out and we do so.

"Right. Thank you. I think that went to plan."

She hired four people with illusions cast on them and gave them very strict instructions on what to do and how to do it. Gnog asks how she knew what illusions to use. She says "I had some insider knowledge from Sigil... Precognition is not just something they've figured out here. I saw some visions and I think I know how precog here works, so we needed to create two exact duplicate events at different times, because that invalidates a whole section of mechanisms they use and casts into doubt anything involving you. It's something I've used the Fixers for before and is why I otherwise use a different group of people each time so the precogs can't follow it."

So Gnog says to Deni, "So maybe we *do* kill the Living Guild Pact, or bear witness to his murder... Unless it's more illusion, since the precogs may be seeing untrue visions due to Vi's misdirection."

Vi thinks the precogs are the most dangerous thing to happen in Ravnica since the Decamillennial Celebration was a long event to celebrate the 10,000 anniversary but there were many plots surrounding it and basically it was cataclysmic. (Meanwhile, the Living Guild Pact is a bad idea - one fallible person in charge of making all judicial decisions between builds? Bad idea, she opines). The existence of a 10th Guild was confirmed, which was a revelation; that wasn't know before; it set off a chain of events through which Kos (for whom the statue was built) in turn managed to destroy the Guild Pact accidentally, forcing *some* kind of quick solution and the Living Guild Pact was chosen.

But why is Vi trying to misdirect the precogs? She thinks they're overstepping themselves, arresting people for things they haven't done yet even though they theoretically only do so when there is near-certainty of a future. But they're trying to cease control unconditionally, above the Azorius laws. Her plans extend beyond this world but she can't explain it, because if people only know a tiny piece it's relatively safe. Ravnica is an important place; it's the centre of what's going to happen. She can tell us - at Gnog's question - that the Xaryxians do figure into it, she is sure, but she's not sure how. She'll try to help the rebels where she can but soon things will mean they have to look after themselves as soon Ravnica will be too busy stopping itself from falling apart.

We ask Vi to send a warning message if possible to Ravnica Station that this is happening so they can pull people out if need be and consolidate resources away from Ravnica. She's heading off-world tonight!

She hands us what looks like jewel box, the outside covered in gears that keep it locked. "It will unlock itself at the right time. It's REALLY important that nobody knows any more than they absolutely need to at any time. The precogs can see everything on the planet to some degree... Also this protect you from the Dimir (10th Guild). They're not evil necessarily, but their methods are the methods of shadow. They can steal, destroy, create and modify people's memories. So now you understand why I can't tell you very much."

Taz starts making strange whirring noises and glowing more than usual, a bit like casting a spell, then goes quite and pipes up (and Vi's face lights up at this!) "I can't have my memories altered. That would never do. I have a journal. Gnog, you said we'd buy a proper book? We should do so and I will keep it hidden within me. I will catalogue as quickly and in as much detail as I can what we've done and heard whenever opportunity arises. If we ever have reason to suspect we might have succumbed to such a thing, we can compare against this record. It might have gaps, but also it might help."

Vi pulls something out of her pocket. "I knew this was just waiting for the right home... Until we meet again you can have this. It will protect you until I return." She rubs her finger with a hankerchief and a previously invisible ring appears. The amethyst in it has been carved to almost look like a brain. She takes it off and hands it to Taz. "If you are attuned you can make this invisible." Taz takes it and thanks her, putting it on. It is a **Ring Of Mind Shielding**. He feels quite relieved! "I will need it back though!" she reminds Taz.

She can tell us that there are agents out making sure things go "to plan", whatever that is... The Voda was indeed murdered. The Orzhov have been covering something up. Gnog briefly explains what we found out about the spirit from the Orzhov priests the previous night. She mulls on it. "You can trust Aurelio, but if you tell him too much you put him at risk. I believe you've already met the renegade trio?" Gnog nods. She continues, "I have met them too. I _think_ they can be trusted? Now that you have the ring, Taz, the Dimir are worth talking to. I think there's some evil that has pervaded into the Golgari, the Rakdos are under the influence of someone new, I know not who, and for some reason the Boros have decided to go after the Gruul in a way that they never have before. If you have time, head North, beyond the Red Wastes and look for the Tribes Of The Gruul. No-one is listening to them. I think they have something important to say."

She tells us there's an unexpected ally: **Teysa** the Orzhov scion. She's in line to inherit a great deal of power, but she's "not like the rest of them", thinks Vi. One other name, **Lavisha** - you'll find her at the Hall Of The Guild Pact. She's the one struggling to hold everything together in Jace's absence. I'm trying to find him. The boy means well. We mention the precog vision; she tells us that Jace's mind cannot be controlled, so we can rule that out.

Vi has to go. She'll lay low until departure time - she doesn't have the ring anymore! - we wish each other well. She hands us a key; "you can hide out here if you need a safehouse. If shit hits the fan, hide out here! The key will guide you there." She pulls out a long wand with a sparking ball on the end; there's a piece of Mizzium in it. She presses a button, a portal appears, says goodbye and steps through. It closes.

Half the goblins look puzzled; half look astonished.

Gnog remarks that this has been quite a day but at least it's lunchtime! He asks the crowd in general, "Where do we go to get a decent lunch around here?!"

This breaks the silent reverie and, gathering their thoughts, the goblins point out that there's a good smokehouse nearby or - if we're fancy people that like a bit of a view - there's a tavern at the end of the street. Gnog says we're clearly fancy people `;-)` (pointing at his chainmail codpiece) but smokehouse sounds like to go past, so we'll head there first but the cliff edge tavern sounds great too.

The smokehouse is inside a factory. Outside is a sign: "Foundry Way Smokehouse". Taz informs us that Foundry Way and Foundry St used to be separate but since were given the combined name Foundry St., so this place must have been here a while. We go in. Racks of meats! Everything seems to be grilled and smoked. It seems they're using waste heat from foundries to smoke woodchips, which is pretty efficient. Gnog walks up the long counter and asks "what's best?!" - a kobold is serving. "Do you like it aged and salty and chewy, or more sweet smokey, or more spicy" - spicy! The kobold uses a ladder to access a higher rack, unhooks something and reaches it forward. It looks like maybe beef or venison, a whole flank. "It this one for you, yes?" "OK!" We explain we'd like some for now but some for later. He recommends 1lb for a lunch, we ask for 3lb, so we have a couple of lunches worth in the chest. 2 zino, 5 silver.

It's spicy but very delicious. Might we have found the best smokehouse on Ravnica? It rivals Waterdeep smoked fish for sure, but flavoured so a different beast. Fee-Ree takes note as another thing for Goliath Drinks. Realising we don't need it in the chest, we put it in the bag of holding but do have an apple each as well.

Off to the pub! Various people are sat on the street, outside factories. Quite a lot of them smoke pipes. We're still attracting plenty of glances, but that's OK. Eating the local jerky, which they recognise, seems to put a few at ease. A few even tip their hats, holding up their jerky; we respond in kind. We might need to go back for more of that some time. At a t-junction, there's a large building at the side called "**Chasmcliff**" - so that's a building name, not a place per se. Next door is a tavern, "**View Of The Dead**". It's been graffitied - it used to be called just "The View" - it seems the owners might have liked the new name, as it looks like it's been left that way for some time.

Pausing just before going in, Gnog looks back up the street says, "I'll never forget those four goblins on the road back to Fricklee."

We head inside. It's a tavern with food and busy, given the time of day, with goblins, gnomes, some humans and even the odd Boros soldier, all rubbing soldiers. We head to the bar. "What can I get you?" Gnog says "We've had all sorts of things in the past like dwarven ales and so-forth, but never anything from goblin folk; what do you recommend in that regard?" "I don't know how 'goblin-y' it is, but we have a few local specialities". He points out one made from barely that's a kind of sour beer, smokey. It's called "Sours". He pours a taste. "The other is a strong spirit that's naturally fermented using plants growing below... We always water it down, but because of the kind of fermentation, it makes it a murky, cloudy colour. We call it Firey Sewer Water!" - we're given a taste of that. He shows us a "pure" form, but then adds in a bit of water; it clouds and bubbles a bit. He gives it Gnog to try at that strength. Gnog gives it a try. It's very firey and bubbly, almost burning. The flavour is very woody. He then puts in way more water and Gnog tries again. It's more fizzy, but much less firey.

Gnog says, "I think I'll have a go at a glass, or shot, or whatever, of the strong version?" Fee-Ree and Deni want Sours, so Gnog buys the round. Deni has a small.

The barkeeper puts a lowball glass in front of Gnog, pulls a full shot and tops it up with water to the half-strength instead of "normal weak" version. He pours out the beers and asks for 1 (of their) silvers, so we pay and look for a table. Surprisingly, there's a bench seat along the windows with enough space for us and we head there, squeezing in. People move a bit out of the way of Gnog who's certainly imposing in what he's wearing! Perception: 16. Gnog's surprised, to say the least. We're on the top of a cliff, but it's not natural; it's set into a chasm descending down onto what looks like a subterranean city (but without its cave roof). A couple of miles stretch out of this, at least 150ft below us. Some of the walls have buildings set into it, some crumbled, many not; the city itself looks to be built on ruins of an older city. There's a slight greenness to the light, reminiscent of Underdark; this is where the Gulgari undead reside. But it's a proper city - spires and buildings, different architecture, looks older perhaps. Gnog wonders if this is how it might look were a Toril Drow city able to be viewed from above like this, in terms of its lighting and verticality. Large caverns can be see in the walls, the city visibly extending into them and, we presume, far beyond.

Further away in the widest part, is a large column of rock or buildings, connected by various bridges to other parts above. Taz checks the map to tell us names - the whole city area is Deadbridge Chasm; the giant column section with all the bridges is called Wayport.

Gnog's quite fond of his strange drink after a while. Once we're all done, we head back out and ask for directions for the workshop of the goblins we helped. It's not on Foundry St though it is in the smelting quarter. It's down something that's almost an alley; or a narrow street. It's not really the goblin part of town, but either way; it's a workshop and it has the Izzit symbol on it. It's called "**Izzit Light And Mayhem**" (ILM). Gnog knocks on the door, which opens promptly; a female goblin asks us why we're there. Gnog shows her the card, says we were fortunate to be able to help with a bit of engine trouble on the Transguild Promenande and thought we'd pay a visit. She invites us in saying we'd have met **Gibo** and **Bebe**. We are led up some stairs; it's a narrow building but there's just about room. We're warned not to touch various things. We get up there and she knocks on the door, calling for Gibo and Bebe; they open the door; "What's up Ma?!" "You have guests! Visitors! They have your card!"

We head into the workshop. They're hard at work building... Something. There are two metal bars with lightning arcing between them. "Ooh, what's that?" says Taz. "It's a - an, umm, Mizzium field." Taz takes a step back. Gnog hands Taz the watch. "Ah, interesting, we're not supposed to let that watch into a Mizzium field as it's powered by Mizzium itself." "Quite right!" The open a lead box and we put the watch in it - apparently safe. After some smalltalk, we bring up the explosion at Nivix seven years ago. They can't remember much. They ask for "Ma". She remembers it. They don't - she says they were only 2 years old. Oh, they're only 9!

So we ask Ma - what does she remember? "I would've only been 18 at the time... I'm sure their father wrote something down actually. I just want to check. You guys have a chat, I'll get his old notebook!" and she toddles off. We ask about bookshops; they know a few - almost all the good bookshops are in either P1, P2 or P5. They think it's ridiculous that there would be so many good books in P5, because if that's where all the universities are anyway, it'd make more sense to put the books elsewhere so that knowledge is spread out. They talk about the universities there; the Izzit have one, but aren't apparently too keen on goblin attendance. They confess to having their own workshop as they don't always agree with Izzit league dictat. "The **Ismeri Library** is the place to go". Thank you. We also ask about the Mizzium-powered cart; they say they're trying to perfect it. Mizzium is useful but rather unstable; they're trying to make it more predictable. They talk about oscillations being unpredictable. Outside influences might be possible; magnetic; Taz suggests they could try to experiment with pitches - sound - maybe resonances would occur. They did try it - resonances caused some near-misses with explosions!

Ma comes back. They do have notes from Pa. The reactions of Gibo and Bebe are excited and childlike; we realise that they're acting their age, but have matured quickly nonetheless. A short-lived race. Everyone gathers round - it's fun, story time with Ma! 

* He has notes about the explosion and *notes from before*.
* He thinks, that they were trying to **amplify and draw upon the natural flow of energy across the planet** and focus it - experimenting with focusing crystals apparently under the direction of Niv Mizzet himself. A high level project.
* She reads on - it was to power something called the "**IPB**". But we don't know what that is. There are references to "The **B**eacon needs more power than we could feed it. No amount of Mizzium could generate enough of a signal for the beacon to activate. So they needed to draw upon the natural energies of the planet which flow through these laylines."
* The Celesnians had tried to storm Nivix, protesting against harnessing the layline energy - that'd interfere with the tree.
* He wasn't working there that night but heard the huge explosion from here. They saw a massive explosion and ball of energy above Nivix. It looked like Niv Mizzet's tower had fallen out of suspension and was threatening to crash down, but held aloft temporarily by some mighty levitation magic.
* Next day, he wasn't allowed on site. The Azorius had surrounded the area and installed some kind of stasis field around the entire building to try and stabilise it while they figured out what to do. For a full day and night this mid-way explosion was visible thus.
* The next day everyone was allowed back in. Ma starts to cry. Taz gently asks, "is that when he passed away?" "Oh no, no! He died in another explosion. It must've been an accident at work. It's part of the risk of the job I guess. That's why I forbid Gibo and Bebe from working at Nivix. Not that they would recognise how clever my boys are, anyway! They'd just give them menial jobs, just like their Pa."

Taz answers, "well, that's their loss it would seem, these two seem really quite ingenious." The two are distracted anyway - chattering about stasis fields; ways to contain the Mizzium. How could time flow though? They start drawing on a blackboard and getting more into it. We say we'll leave them in peace.

Before we go they hand us a little ball, two ends metal. with a seam along the hemisphere. They put it in a small lead box - just in case we walk into any fields! They've caught Mizzium in a loop inside; and... Well, if we throw it at something breaking the two halves apart - big boom. A Mizzium bomb! Gnog's eyes have lit up at that - he's very excited and grateful, it could be tremendously useful in a fight or even just as a distraction. We thank them. We get the watch back, Taz does remind them that while he suggested sound harmonics for experimentation it would be strictly to *avoid* resonance and their stasis field idea sounds more promising anyway.

We thank them again, head out, leaving them to it and wander down the street/alley.

**Gnog suspects IP - InterPlanar? Beacon, anything to do with Xaryxian energy beams? Celesnian complaints - laylines, we saw traces at the tree - connected to the murders? In any case, if the explosion happened when the device was being *tested* then perhaps it actually worked - fired a beam - punched through planes. Now, if you take the "planes all chaotically intersect" model then a straight line would pass through many. Further, if the 7-year-ago missing Xaryxian attacked planet was collapsing and beaming energy back at the same time, might the two beams of energies have met and fed back?**

It's about 2:30pm. We need to figure out where we go next. It's sightseeing, then; the marketing trader who went to Gore House hopefully didn't stay and did indeed get to his club; so we hope, no need for rescue! We'll go past there through Kamen Fortress and find our way down onto the bridges across the central column area rising out of Deadbridge Chasm. We'll try to get across there and back up, into the other part of Precinct Six which we haven't explored yet.

As we start our journey, we find another deep canal. It seems the city was perhaps split - up close, this looks more like a crack than a canal. People seem to be living within; when looking in closely, lights are visible. We find a small, busy bridge and pop out behind a huge defunct factory - it's **Gore House**. It has a very club-like feel to it, but it's giant; at least Battersea Power Station size. Four storeys, very busy, a higher section in the middle, various smoke stacks. Outside is surprisingly calm, but loud music thumps from within. It feels like a 24/7 kind of club. Painted outside are beautiful frescoes of very erotic and very mad/crazed scenes; manic, almost. One depicts many people, painted 20ft high apiece, laughing but with their faces showing a crazed appearance. Then we see a painting of a huge demon with massive wings, holding two humanoids as if he is about to eat them. Gnog can't deny he's curious but this isn't the time and, given the warnings we heard before, probably cannot be until all is resolved within Ravnica. And maybe not even then.

We reach a tall wall having worked our way around. It's about 20ft high. There are ways into the gap between the wall and buildings around it, which forms a 10ft wide alleyway which this time lets us move around Kamen Fortress instead of trying to figure out how to get through it. Boros patrols are stationed at regular intervals along the wall and at guard posts on the building itself. Gnog's a bit overwhelmed by the close-quarters business and narrow alley (perception only 9). He does see in front a young man and what looks like an apprentice pushing a cart full of charts, drawings and other material; as he pushes he seems to be looking at a list while the apprentice appears to be saying yes/no to what he might be able to get. Gnog survival 16; he recognises some of the things they are listing off - they're all things he remembers needing to get for Sehanine's Bow for repairs. Must be a shipwright. On a planet which has built over its oceans? How strange. Behind us, we overhear someone talking about a strange red glow from a warehouse at Midori Park, smelling like sulphur; nobody wanted to go near; maybe it's still going today. Then we hear that "Rhianna" is closing her forge, sick of replacing stolen tools. There's talk of goblins always stealing, "it's in their nature".

Gnog plucks up courage to speak to the Shipwright. It seems there is good access from Deadbridge Chasm to the under-city oceans. In P5, there's a direct path down. Apparently sailing underneath is common; depending on the territory, it can be light or dark. Greenish blue when lit.  They're from P5 but come to P6 for supplies. They say the best are in Wayport, which they're heading towards; we ask if we can accompany them, they say yes; Gnog offers to tow the cart which they appreciate. He's in his leather outfit heh so it's obvious he's strong.

We end up back on Tin St., which it seems leads to the Wayport eventually. Walking the other way we see, for the first time on Ravnica, an elf; dressed in green and black, pale almost translucent skin, long black hair, pale green eyes. As he walks, a cloud of spores trail behind. Taz history 16 - it's a "Devkarin Elf" and moves towards. The apprentice grabs Taz and pulls him back! "You don't want to - oh, wait, you might be fine..." - and Taz notices that wherever the elf has walked, behind is growing a small trail of mushrooms; fungus. Anything it touches that's organic seems to instantly decay. The mushrooms in turn then turn to dust, leaving a thin layer. "Isn't that quite inconvenient?!" asks Taz. "Yes, but they play a vital role in the city - just don't put anything you value in its wake!" - the Shipwright comments that they don't usually come to the surface.

As we get up to the Tin St access ramps, it's very busy. We get up there and start to head into the area that goes down and becomes surrounded on either side by apartments. Eventually there's a sharp turn and we emerge onto the huge bridge; it's extremely busy; we're nearly at Wayport. "This is the last stop before you leave the 10th District" says the Shipwright. "We have to hurry - there's only four hours left!" Gnog picks up the pace (athl. 26) and does well navigating the cart through the flow, wide enough for two carts abreast in each direction. Lots of Boros guards.

We get across and enter into a foyer area of Wayport, where all manner of ramps, stairs and lifts sprout in innumerable directions, signs everywhere. Bridges lead in all directions. There's a sign to the big Southerly exit - "Benzer's Bridge - District 11". We bid the Shipwright and apprentice farewell and wish them good hunting. They head off; we're left to our own devices.

Signs indicate zones/districts within Wayport. Food/beverages; metals and tools; ores; vehicles; constructs; animals and so-on. There is even a section for paper goods and clothing/fabrics. We head for paper goods. On the way, we see several warehouse shops - paper pulp, huge paper reams, cardboard and so-on. It's next to a wood / carpentry area. As we continue, the scale decreases and refinement increases - book shops, but bulk. We find an "empty book" store, and Taz looks for something that could be a robust journal. He finds one that's sort of A5 size, really meant to be a ledger, 500 pages; it's bound with clue, which isn't ideal; Deni has a look around as Taz's 14 investigation isn't quite enough. Deni points to a section with crates of dark brown, leather-bound 250 page tomes, thicker paper without lines, with a leather strap to wrap around and tie it closed. That seems more robust so Taz is happy with it but isn't sure if we can just buy one! The shopkeeper isn't exactly thrilled but assumes we're buying it as a sample. Since we're not a huge retailer or anything, we have to pay full price - 25gp - but Taz thinks it's worth it, probably, and we pay. Taz thinks it *might* be a spellbook but very good value if so - 100 pages of such would normally be 50gp.

We spend another hour or so just looking around, reminiscing about times when things we see here would've been useful back then. It's about 4pm when we start looking for back towards District Six, aiming for Midori Park. The well-signed routes make this quite easy. The route ascends quite steeply and pops out much higher up than Tin St. This bridge is easier to see over the edges; the city below, still maybe 150-200ft below, is much more visible here. It's very intricate, complex and "alive" - there seem to be streams, which aligns with the Shipwright's information.

Midori Park is a neighbourhood, but all factories again. Not smelting though - less smog - with signs of large parks that have since been split up and shrunk, but some remnants remain. It's more warehouses than factories. We see some Boros angels flying around, looking hot AF as usual (Gnog is definitely despite himself developing a Thing for them) yet many warehouses have Orzhov symbols. There are many clocks that seem to have coloured segments. Taz figures these out (intelligence based insight, 17). The coloured panel is related to time until sunset. Signs have gentle but firm reminders to keep off the streets at night! Yikes. We have about 1.5 hours - it seems it goes dark around 5:30-6pm here.

Gnog's curious about the 'strange red glow' warehouse. Taz asks people - persuasion nat 20! + 11 -> 31. He meets an enthusiastic response and the warehouse directions are given to us in detail. "It's at Midori Park itself! It has been glowing all night for about four nights now, nobody's doing anything... I wouldn't want to be caught out at night in these parts these days; there are ghouls afoot; undead are clashing in the streets..." - so we head there.

It's a very large warehouse on what used to be a park. Orzhov symbols. It appears to be closed; red light glows from inside. Taz says "this is an uncomfortable reminder of a dream I had from Garren!" and Gnog says, "Deni, I think this is one for you..."

Deni asks for a boost from Gnog - he thinks, to reach a window. Gnog athl 28. Deni pulls herself up easily onto the roof! She quietly moves along, pretty much silent. She seems to lower herself down the other side; we walk around to try and see where she went, trying to stay at least a bit hidden amongst low bushes. Gnog manages to do OK despite his size (stealth 19). We see Deni undoing a latch of a window while hanging from the roof by one hand; she slides inside. Hmm. Taz uses Message periodically go get updates.

Deni says, "I think you guys are going to want to see this! Meet me at the side door" - Taz relays it and we go around, quietly. Gnog keeps watch. Perception 16. Taz offers some inspiration. The side door opens and we scuttle inside. It's a huge warehouse with a *lot* of stock - many crates, including huge metal cages with thick heavy velvet draped over them. There are some crates in the corner that are glowing red; it's clear that it'd be very obvious at night, less so during the day. Sulphur smell.

Taz peers underneath a nearby, dark cave with the velvet (darkvision). Wisdom saving! 16. He peers underneath and nearly yelps in a fright - there are animals in there. Large ones. One long-necked dinosaur like creatures is curled up that looks up at him in surprise; it starts to bellow. Taz casts Silence immediately. This surprises the creature enough to stop, but Taz holds the spell. Now we head to the red cages. It's a stack about 4 crates high. Light spills out of them. That's not the source of the sulphur smell though. That seems to be coming from large circular bins in a different area.

Gnog asks if Deni has the skill to get a plank up on one of the glowing crates to get a look inside, but able to put it back after. She thinks she can; Taz offers inspiration; thieves tools, total roll 27 (DC 25). She manages to prise it open. She looks astonished; looks to Fee-Ree then Gnog; "What?!"; takes a step back and invites us to look. Fee-Ree first, then Gnog. Taz can't reach. Gnog sees inside a glass canister with, inside, a single large red ruby crystal that is shining. Gnog picks up Taz and shows him. "Look familiar?!" he asks. Gnog perception 17 using Taz's inspiration. Gnog hears the sound of something moving behind him; as he spins around, he sees a *giant* walking into the warehouse. He whispers hurriedly, "hide!". Stealth:

* Fee-Ree 11
* Gnog 13, despite blowing a luck point (and rolling even lower)
* Taz 14
* Deni 25

As we're trying to hide, although Deni can't be seen, three ghosts are looking directly at us. **Someone walks in beside the giant - an Orzhov priest, by the looks of it; a ghost shrieks, "THIEVES!"**

Initiative:

* Gnog 16
* Taz 8
* Fee-Ree 5
* Deni 13

The giant - actually smaller than it might be, notes Gnog (technically Large not Huge) - advances, reaching very close to us. As a bonus action it sees Fee-Ree and focuses on her, as the least well hidden. The priest commands the ghosts - "Do not let those intruders get away! What are they doing in here?!" and summons a Spiritual Weapon, which appears in front of Gnog and attacks. It surprises Gnog, appearing out of nowhere - the attack is a crit - dealing a heavy 18 damage. A cantrip is cast, too; a searing white light falls onto Gnog, which Gnog just manages to dodge (dex save).

Ghost C flies in front of Taz and tries to possess him. Charisma saving - luck 19 roll for 27. The ghost is trying to take over him. How strange. Instead, the ghost tries to reach out and touch Taz; Taz throws up a shield, uncertain what the touch would do and preferring to avoid it! Taz remarks with surprising calmness, "We do not seem to be in a very strong position here!"

It gets worse; a mage flies in from the end of the warehouse, landing on a box near the other two ghosts. It casts Mage Armour.

Gnog says, "We're not thieves, we're concerned citizens investigating the strange red glow that's been bothering the residents for days!" and the priest responds, "That's none of your business, this is privately held property! You broke into our warehouse, you can't have good intentions! We'll have your souls as payment!" and at this, Gnog rages, responds "Then I'll see you in hell!" and moves to block access to Taz, attacking Ghost C twice with Stormbringer Maul. Nat 20! The lighting damage doesn't do much and the rolls aren't great but Brutal Critical helps and it's a total damage of 39. Gnog swings again. He only just connects, but it's easily enough to take it down - the ghost dissipates in wisps. Gnog shouts, "They can possess you, watch out!" - Gnog moves over to where the ghost was, positioning himself between Taz and the giant.

Out of nowhere an arrow streaks across and hits Ghost A. We see Deni, hidden over a distance away. She does 43 damage, but it's not *quite* enough to take that ghost down. Next, Taz throws inspiration at Deni and throws Eldritch Blast at Ghost A; nat 20 again! It's obliterated.

Fee-Ree's up. She moves forward so she can get a better view of the room without the giant in the way. She wants to throw a fireball, but we know there are animals in the cages; mass damage won't work. Instead, she lines up Ghost B and the Orzhov priest and throws a sunbeam out from her hand. Con saves for Ghost B (*just* fails, taking 24 radiant damage and becoming blinded); and priest (fails, same issues).

Taz shouts, "We really were just trying investigate the weird red glow, you know!"

Despite being blinded, Ghost B through luck wanders towards Fee-Ree. A second priest arrives, shouting about "what is all this commotion?!" - it sees the battle and casts a Guiding Bolt at Fee-Ree. It would hit, but Fee-Ree throws up a shield to deflect it before Taz has a chance to react with Silvery Barbs. The energy bounces off. The priest now pulls out a mace. "By the power of Orzhova, you will not leave here with your bodies!"

The giant was honed in on Fee-Ree, so starts to head towards her. Just as he's about to leave Gnog's range he's hit in an opportunity attack (24 damage); Sentinel stops him moving; but he's within 10ft of Fee-Ree and attacks her anyway. Both swings miss, bouncing off her shield. It's angry. Gnog shouts in Giant, "We are *not* your enemy! Do not fight us, brother!" - disadv persusasion, 19, "You are not allowed to be in here! You are looking at the crystals! That is forbidden!" and the priest shouts at it to shut up (!).

The spiritual weapon just misses Gnog (dirty 20 vs Ac 21). The controlling priest now tries again with Guiding Bolt, this time at Gnog, in response; this hits. 14 halved to 7 by rage. The mage on top of the cage looks directly at Gnog and Suggests something. Gnog is supposed to lay down his weapons and keel. Thanks to his last Luck point, Gnog resists it.

Gnog shouts "Don't you dare damage this leather, it's brand new and there'll be a very angry half-orc to whom you'll have to answer - Deni, that ghost is a problem" and swings at the giant twice, recklessly. 23 damage, then another 20. Gnog realises he's fighting a giant and mentally facepalms, but that said, there are plenty of non-giant combatants.

Deni fires at Ghost B, its blindness conferring advantage; she hits for 39 in total, taking it down. With her bonus action she assesses the mage on the cage and runs next to Fee-Ree.

Taz throws eldritch blasts at the nearby Orzhov priest, injured from Fee-Ree's sunbeam. Both hit (12+14 damage), taking down the priest. A spirit seems to rise out of the priest and shoots up towards the ceiling of the warehouse, vanishing. We suspect his spirit will bring reinforcements soon enough.

Fee-Ree moves around, keeping within range of the giant to avoid opp attacks and throws another sunbeam at the giant and mage. Con saves all round - giant saves, the mage doesn't so ends up blinded. The damage is 30 (giant gets half). She spends 2 sorcery points to additionally cast a quickened Shocking Grasp, moving forward to the giant; 16 lightning damage (using Tides Of Chaos). This takes the giant down!

The recently-arrived priest moves forward, ending up on the ground next to the mage on the cage. A spiritual weapon once again attacks Gnog, with advantage, but misses despite that. Then there's another blast of energy; Gnog avoids it once more. The mage on the cage moves forward a bit, still on the cage and casts a spell in cone, just missing Taz - partly hidden behind Gnog and clearly less powerful - instead favouring Deni, on the far side of its spell zone - it had to pick. It's a blast of chilling, deathly cold.

Con save, Gnog 26 (saves); Fee-Ree 10 (takes full force); Deni 20 despite only a +1 (rolled 19). The total damage is a whopping 38. Gnog takes half and half again (9); Deni uses a dodge to do the same; poor old Fee-Ree the full 38. It's one of her few elemental damages for which she has no resistance. Ouch. Taz regrets not having given her inspiration sooner, as her Sunbeam spell also falters from the damage.

Gnog shouts "Motherfucker!" and jumps up to tackle the mage on the cage, striking twice. The first is deflected by a shield but the second, despite only doing 21 damage, kills the mage; the spirit once again departs. Gnog jumps back down into the face of the remaining priest and roars.

Deni runs around to get a good line of sight and fires at the priest; she does get a hit. It's enough to take down the priest.

Taz helps Fee-Ree with a few healing spells.

### (2200XP all round, but via gifting, 1100 for most and 5500 for Taz).

Gnog lets his rage go and says, "We're in serious shit. We've just killed people who are technically the rightful property owners here, even if they maybe were doing illegal stuff... But since they didn't want us to take those red crystals... Anyone want to help me putting one of those canisters into the bag of holding?"

Deni lifts one out carefully and hands it to Gnog. Taz Arcana 21: It shouldn't destroy the bag. It's not a planar, but *is* in a Mizzium field, and he warns us of that. Nothing Mizzium powered in the bag? Oh wait - the bomb! Good safety tip - we move it to the backpack and carefully lower in the crystal. Perhaps our goblin friends might help study it. Deni via insight points out that these things weren't hidden; it's not a warehouse for hiding, it's storing things for sale. Who were they selling it to?

Suddenly, bellowing noises start again. The silence spell has worn off. We end up releasing one juvenile Indrik, two juvenile rhino-like Hornbeasts and one cage full of young furry cat like creatures. All juvenile and we don't know why; animal trade clearly. At least it might look like an animal rights attack? Except for the missing red crystal.

Gnog mentions that the spirits are surely bringing reinforcements. We quickly check the sulphur barrels; they contain sulphur rocks that look volcanic. We bag one of those too as a sample, specifically do *not* loot anything, then we want to get out as quickly as we can - but Fee-Ree asks for us to give her a moment; she pulls us close together and casts Invisibility to hide us all. "This only lasts for an hour - we need to go!" - we make a beeline for Precinct Four, holding hands so we know where we are, Deni leading the way; the shortest route back through the smelting district of Precinct Six and through past Nivix to get lost in the noise in P4. She does well and we get home, we *just* get past Tin Street into the Bulwark when we become visible again. The sun is low in the sky.

We hurry back to our apartment to catch our breath, checking the hallway as we go. Deni and Gnog both notice a new playbill stuck to the wall:

* The Carnival Of Wonders - Tomorrow, Doors Open At 11am - Precinct Four

...it has a symbol of an elephant on it, which we assume refers to Levinia. Attractions are listed, with the elephant on "The Simic Twins", 11:30am. Deni takes it.

We get to our room and wonder, "how fucked are we?!" based on the recent fight. Maybe not so bad - there's been a lot of this kind of thing lately and that warehouse felt *distinctly* under the radar with whatever the ruby shards are. Deni says "It's probably safe to assume the Orzhov are not going to be our fans. So how will we find Teysa?" She's a scion, supposedly going to inherit a lot of power; so perhaps we go as tourists to the Orzhova and since they like showing their power & wealth, we might find leads there.

We take a short rest. Gnog reads the Ravnica book a bit. He remarks that the food and drink in P6 was better than we've found in P4, but maybe we've just not found the right place yet. We should adventure out. He points out that since seeing the Gore House and realising exactly what Rakdos is, he's not looking to see any of *those* kinds of shows! He can explore his 'showmanship' in his own time and his own way. (The Incubus and Succubus, though - if he ever got the chance to have fun with *them* again - good lord, yes.)

It's about 7:30pm. It's fully dark. P4 is its usual lively self. Gnog asks Taz about the Red Wastes - seems its an entire district of its own; a long walk, and not one to do at night. Food and drink then. Gnog, perception 16, follows his nose! Deeper into the bulwark, Southwards into its more open areas. We find various street food - meat skewers, glutinous rice treats, pastries, sweet teas and more. People eat on benches. A lot of people smoke (hookah style). We try to slow down and be part of it. Gnog isn't fond of Ravnica, truth be told, for all he likes some of its people and some places; its politics and ethics grate. But we're here for a while; he needs to make an effort. We find a cart which gives us bundles of food in what looks like coconut leaves. It seems just one thing; you take it and head elsewhere to eat; it's very busy so we guess it must be decent and queue up. They're cheap - 10 zibs (coppers) each - we hand over an Azorius silver (25 copper) and 15 zibs (15 copper) - Taz gets a full portion. We're asked "egg or no egg?" - eggs all round! We find a bench. They seem to belong to no particular stall - communal.

The bundles are untied. We untie them. Inside is something that looks like rice; semolina maybe? Saffron odours, we think, based on the more exotic things of Southern Ward. A hard-boiled egg, sliced in half; slow cooked goat, dark reddish brown chunks, slivered almonds, raisins and more. It has a Southern Ward feel and is very, very good. "That's more like it!" says Gnog; and Deni and Fee-Ree remark on the price, given the spices. Taz likes it for its novelty and we share the rest around the three of us. Mainly Gnog.

Deni get some drinks - she goes to the sweet tea stall with a zino. She comes back with four teas and one Azorius silver in change. Two are sweet teas; two are a milky, almost soybean style drink. We share and try them out. Gnog prefers the tea, Taz prefers the soybean milk. We see around us people playing games of dice, cards and more; there's *finally* a sense of community of sorts in P4 - we'd only seen that prior in P6, earlier today. There's a sense of people that look after their own within their community. If we take the effort, without judgement or fear, they'll reciprocate; simple things like eating the jerky in P6 and the response as we walked down the street are a lesson.

Gnog asks if anyone around wants to play some kind of dice game. Sort of announces it to the world. A couple of younger women shout they will; an older guy chuckles and says he'll play too. Gnog says, "we're from far away and I don't know if we have the same games - would it be OK if we played one of yours?" - the older guy wants to see one of ours instead. Gnog has proficiency in his dice set. He describes an old soldier game, involving shaking the dice in a cup. Everyone places their cup down and the highest roll basically wins; but it's coupled with an aspect of how lucky you feel; you look at your number and decide if you think it'll be the highest, with some betting and that also determines outcome. We play that for a while, which is fun. Gnog hopes they enjoyed it, even though it's just a simple game of chance.

Fee-Ree wonders if we're trying to win - bend luck? - but we figure we're just playing for fun. A crowd gathers and it gets more interesting. Someone comes around handing out some kind of cold, lemon tea drink ladeled from a bowl. It is declared to be "quite a fun game" - part cards, part dice - but then in the end, we lose about 1 zino, so other people are unsurprisingly enjoying it! But the loss is honest and Gnog hasn't played in *ages* and has a really great time. In the end, we play for about an hour.

After food and dice, we see some stalls starting to pack up. Everyone bids goodbye and people start to disperse. It's about 9pm. Kids are sent off to bed. Some Boros soldiers, just off-shift, arrive; some other shops appear ready with dinners for them. They seem to know people.

The street becomes quieter. Drink stands are still around; some changing to more alcohol-based; smoking shops open. We have a nightcap; something smaller; there seems to be a popular fermented goat milk (!) which sounds terrible in theory but is worth a try. It's not the best honestly, but it's interesting anyway - it's hot, milky, creamy but also alcoholic. Quite a lot - a flagon - people nurse one all night, it seems. At a silver each they're not cheap, but it was worth it for the experience and just to watch the world go by. It's stronger than a strong ale and even Gnog's constitution is struggling a bit by the bottom of the flagon.

As we chat with people, we do hear some stuff... People gossip. Vitu Gazhi closed, pilgrims displaced; a feeling of things being wrong. That's causing a lot of distress. Others worrying about the guilds controlling everything, but the Celesnians mobilising is particularly odd - they had not been thought of as marshal in nature. Others talk of how they seem to be recruiting people. And so-on. We talk about what we head in P6 (in abstract terms) - guilds pushing against each other. They in turn talk of the Gruul being more brazen, seemingly deliberately antagonising the Boros now. Apparently this very morning the Gruul brought a massive catapult into a nearby area on rubble, made a massive ball of *poo*, set it on fire and flung it into the heart of Sunhome. Gnog can't stop laughing for ages.

(We notice some glances as we leave, perhaps a newfound respect in their eyes; Gnog's 300lbs can hold his alcohol).

We head back at about 10:30. Gnog remarks that he is glad he did this. He starts to feel that there's a soul here after all. Perhaps it's worth saving on its own merits, not just out of a feeling of obligation.

We head to bed. Given recent warehouse events we elect to take watches this time, with even Taz taking a 2 hour spell.

* Fee-Ree perception 13  
* Deni perception 22
* Gnog perception dirty 20
* Taz perception 17

Gnog hears a few things in the middle of the night, but it's just people in the hallway. It sounds like someone arriving late being shown to a room by the landlord. This landlord isn't just running a hostel; he's giving people a place to hide when they need it.

Otherwise, uneventful. We sleep well.

(END OF PART 8 - Part 9 next)
