# Gnog: Part 10

We're in our apartment, rented on the evening of Day 21.

## Day 27 (Riglan 64 - 6 hours shifted forward) - local day Thursday (7 day week)

It's a Thursday! Nude art class in P2 maybe later. But first, we need to learn about the Celesnians and be more mindful and respectful of Levinia's approach and preferences.

Taz notifies Gnog, when Gnog awakens, that Deni had popped out for something. There are various strange treats - fried dough sticks, strange bags of various juices and an interesting goat milk yoghurt. We share breakfast.

We're going to head to see Levinia; Gnog wears his Clothes Of Mending, since it's not about intimidation there and that's what he was in when they first met. Hopefully, that may make her feel a bit more at ease; less cognitive conflict about the image of a possible Gruul but the attitude of an off-worlder. Deni packs up some spare food in case Levinia might like it.

We head off; it's early, about 7am, the sun's just up. We circumnavigate Sunhome, walk past Aurelio's garrison along the upper wall, drop down into Beast Haven region towards Vitu Ghazi and cut across towards Levinia's Verdani. It's slightly North of the great tree. We see people moving out as we get there; all of their belongings, Celesnians helping them carry things. They are heading off in different directions. Some, especially the very old or surprisingly very young, put their hands on the trunk or kiss it as they descend, as though saying goodbye. A sombre affair.

Keeping out of the way as best we can, giving way all the time, we gradually head up to Levinia's. We see leaves falling from the tree; it's already started to fail. Gnog feels a quite profound sadness at that. It's interesting that the people we see are galvanised around each other; they're tightly-knit and supportive. The entire Celesnyan conclave is here to help. They're sad for the tree more than each other. Eventually, we get to Levinia's hut. She's starting to pack, with a few boxes out that she is starting to fill. When we get there she's holding a picture, trying to decide on a box. There are various books piled on the ground; pots and pans are stacked up, various jars for the honey. Gnog knocks on the inside of the door.

"Oh! Ah, great, you're here. OK. Sorry, I was in the middle of packing..." Gnog makes his plea for her to help him understand Celesnyans. She agrees; if we're sure, since they're very different; she says she's going to make a pot of tea, since she'd made some honey and it needs to cool before she can pack it. We're handed big mugs and apparently we can head out with them. "Wow, they have so much stuff!" she says, seeing a family particularly busy with many helpers and many boxes and bags. "I just could not imagine ever accumulating that much stuff" - but Deni winks as she's got quite a lot too!

So, Levinia starts to show us what it means to be within the Conclave. Some of it requires belief/faith since we're spiritually connected in the way that she had talked of before, so we can't experience it.

* At the heart of Celesnya - Mat'Celesnya - Mat is a title given to a physical manifestation or avatar of Celesnya. That's the life force of this very planet.
* All of us, are it's children. The descendants of the angels and demons - those from Razia, Aurelia and Rackdos - are not Celesnya's children, but everyone else is. So are all plants and every creature, no matter how large or small. We're all connected to the planet, to Celesnya.
* Some of the oldest are the Vodas. They're born from the trees when the trees gain consciousness and imbue that consciousness in a physical being, the Voda (we understand this as Dryads).
* Three of the oldest Vodas had offered or sacrificed their trees into the pathways of the world - lay lines - to reinforce them. They came together - merged - and are the current voice of Celesnya; the current leader, the **Trostani**. They didn't just merge with each other, they merged with Mat'Celesnya itself and became the life force that resides at the heart of Vitu-Ghazi. That's why the great tree is the oldest living thing on the planet.
* Vitu-Ghazi's roots turn into the laylines of the world. The tree holds everything together and connects to _every_ Verdani, connects to every ancient tree on the world; and those connect to every Celesnya.
* Levinia does not mean "connect" in a metaphysical way; she'd never felt the true connection herself before her Voda passed, but at the ceremony, she suddenly had the revelation of the connection. She felt a greater grief than she could ever imagine or contain and thought she'd be swallowed hole by it; drowning in it; but then she realised that the connection works two ways. The grief was shared with every Celesnyan **across the entire planet** - this is when she realised that it wasn't her burden alone to carry. What Voda Diarmud had been telling her the whole time was true; she was connected; she'd just never experienced a significant enough event to feel it so clearly. A sheltered life! 
* "I suspect I'll never be one of those 100% pure shining Celesnyans that are so full of self-belief and confidence, that their faith lights the way. I think I'll always have some doubt. But it is comforting to know that the connection is real."
* The conclave thinks as one, feels as one. It's why - I came back and I asked some of the questions you raised... Apparently, the conclave very nearly fell 70 years ago at the Decamillennial. Lord Szadek had coerced / persuaded one the Golgari who could pass themselves as a wild elf, joining Celesnya, getting through their defences and tried to merge with the World Soul - to corrupt it for their own ends, to take control.
* It very nearly worked. The process of extricating this person, pulling out the connection, was a very painful process for everyone. And *that* is when Levinia found out about the ultimate sacrifice made - **that's why the Trostani was formed. That's why they needed to sacrifice what they did**.
* "And here comes the bit that people always struggle with... You see, when you touch upon the truth - if that's what we can call it - of that connection, the comfort of being something greater, and you get over that fear of losing yourself, you start to - you start to add to it. We start to include every plant, every animal, every being to the collective.
* Some people call us a tumour that doesn't know when to stop growing, but we seek to share the joy of that connection and oneness. We grow and thrive and multiply. For life, in its abundance, is the entire purpose of Mat'Celesnya. We multiply, grow, expand; fold more and more into Celesnya and increase Celesnya itself. That's why some of the families you've seen are so large. We have the biggest trees, the most food, the most animals; we supply food to the entire planet.
* Celesnya is by far the most populous of all the Guilds. And we know that is why others are threatened by us. We outnumber them.
* It's not helped by some of the factions and thoughts that have started to seep through Celesnya as more and more people think this way and it spreads through the Conclave - that cause us to militarise. We see a threat and seek to defend ourselves.

As we continue on, we converse more, but eventually, we realise that Levinia has in fact taken us to the Hall Of The Trostani. She's evidently decided we're worth helping this much. "Well, we're here!" - sweeping buttress roots rise and then coil around above a chamber that seems to be deep within the tree, with numerous smaller roots pulsing down around and past. As we walk inside, we hear the sound of faint choral singing, yet omniprescent. We see what we think are the three dryads, intertwined around each other looking almost like a mass of tangled undergrowth, emerging out of the wood of the tree itself but up high. The inside of the chamber feels like an arbour; there are leaves and flowers within this chamber, that seem to be growing inside here, but it's a new form of life that Gnog's never before seen. It inspires awe, without doubt. The chamber is an irregular, natural, dome of sorts, perhaps 80ft tall at highest points; the ground is irregular making estimations hard, but it's probably around 50ft diameter. It feels like a cathedral.

Others are present; not apparently worshipping, just being present and joining in the singing. The Trostani aren't leading the song; everyone just sings in unison.

Levinia leans in - "I don't know how they do it - whenever I come in here, there's always singing! But what hit me really hard during the ceremony, the song turned to sorrow. I don't know if it was the elders, or someone..." - Gnog suggests it was her; in that moment, perhaps her grief for this person that was so special to her, spread out and helped the entire Conclave, across the whole planet, understand what this loss was.

A Loxodon male arrives and embraces Levinia. He is an impressive person - immense, yet somehow graceful and with wisdom etched in every line across the grey, elephant-like skin of his face; piercing green eyes. Levinia introduces him as **Elder Quillan**. As he speaks a greeting, creepers or sprouts (we later learn these are called "saprolings") moving away from the walls to stand around him; they seem able to walk, like Cedric can. He notices our surprise and mentions that the "saprolings are simply curious" - we realise they are very numerous, probably as many as a 100, in varying sizes from less than a foot high to reasonably tall. They sniff and feel inquisitively the air around, one climbing up Gnog's leg and the rest of the party. Gnog gives one little scritches. "Do not be afraid of them, they mean you no harm". After a while they retreat back towards Quillan, apparently satisfied with whatever it is they have learned.

Levinia and Quillan chat generally, before Levinia starts talking about us. She describes how we met and our arrival here, originally to see elders but modified in practice to learn more about the Conclave. She says that we have questions that she thinks only the elders may be able to answer, from 7 and 70-or-so years ago (77, the Decamillennial).

**"I am Arrin Ogolakanu, the Giantslayer, descendant of the Ogolakamu clans of Prometiia, defender of the continent of Feyrun and its wider planet of Toril, where I am known simply as Gnog. I hail from the druid conclave of Duskhollow, where I learned means of communication with animals and plants on our world and, I have found, yours too. We come in peace, seeking knowledge but finding disruption. We fear for the balance of Ravnica and seek your wisdom and your aid in our investigations."**

"Welcome to the world of Mat'Celesnya. We welcome you and your life force. Take what you need and no more. We will provide with generosity as long as nothing is taken in violence. Do you wish to join with us during your time here? Do you feel disconnected from your own planet and people? Can we provide an anchor and a shared mind while you are severed from yours?"

We thank him. We have our connection, us four, and to a departed friend; we feel lucky, that we are distant from, but not disconnected from our planet.

The loxodon reaches out a hand; a vine tendril of light snakes out. Gnog touches it. Nature, with luck, only 6! He's never encountered it before... Wisdom saving: Nat 1+4. Ah, shit...

* Gnog touches this vine of light, wondering what it is, thinking he's meant to
* He feels a connection - it almost looks like tiny filaments are connected to his finger and reach his nerves, from there direct to his mind
* Suddenly he almost falls over in shock; millions of thoughts and voices flood into his head in unison, overwhelming
* Quillan's eyes open wide and he pulls back, and he reaches with his trunk to grab Gnog before he calls.

Gnog is embarrassed. "I'm sorry, I wasn't ready for that! I'm usually hardier than that - I seem to be on a bad morning... I apologise for any misunderstanding. The error is mine. I should have explained that we do not have such connections where I am from. I am keen to try again." "Very well... Maybe we'll do it a different way, though."

He picks up a Saproling, puts it on his shoulder and now the Saproling touches Gnog. Then those Saprolings touch and the network extends out. So things scale up, slowly at first, gathering pace geometrically; Gnog feels it all. Plants, animals, people. Gnog says, "It's exactly as you described, Levinia - the plants, animals, people; very beautiful." The abundance of life force is almost indescribable. Abundant, upward, positive; wanting to grow and flourish. It's not mind reading though; it's an awareness of consciousness, presence and emotion; but not one of individual thought. Individualism still exists outside of this network, but individualism does not have much meaning within it. He can sense pain from people leaving the Veredani, but sees the emotional flow in response from the supportive community and the spreading of the burden.

This also reveals the vulnerability of this network. A powerful enough emotion could spread. A _rotten_ enough influence could spread, if it knew the way to work past whatever resilience or defences there must be. Suddenly, the connection starts to fade; saprolings are disconnecting gradually; eventually, Gnog is alone.

"Hmm," says Gnog, "strange, I was only so briefly a part of that, and suddenly feel alone in a way I can't explain and haven't felt before; I'm sure it will pass." The appeal and lure of Celesnya is evident. It's understandable that they want to share this, but it is drug-like, perhaps; is it a real thing, was it artificially bolstered like the Rakdos orgy; he can't be objective. It gives him some perspective on the scale of everything. There's another emotion too; an anxiety, a fear almost, of an ego that could so easily have been erased - and happily so - now in shock at the realisation of that potential.

Gnog first asks about 7 years ago and sentry posts just before the Nivix explosion. The elder says we should talk to young dryads, nyads, nymphs, who would ask for us. We should walk with him. It seems the inside has quite then network of naturally formed corridors and chambers. Perhaps there are multiple generations of trees that have grown together, connected as one.

We're led to a dryad who tends to aerial plants that grow higher up on the boughs of the great tree. The heavier Loxodon know better than to try and walk on such delicate branches! He'll leave us with her and we can go back to the hall to find him later. So introduce ourselves and ask what her name is - it's is **Shepherdess Aerani**. We explain the problem and what we're hoping to find out. She suggests we go up to look for vantage points and then she can figure out who was there. Levinia isn't sure if she can come - Gnog was already worried about his weight! - but she'll have to "not mind hanging"? She looks up and vines uncoil from above, wrapping around all of us. Gnog is glad he's wearing his adventurer clothes else people below would have an awkward view. We elevate between branches, vines swapping over to elevate us again; it's a smooth ascent, slowing and speeding up gently as we are conveyed along.

Eventually we reach a point in the open. Taz - wisdom saving 7! - "Oh my goodness! We are very high!" he's not been this high before ever. The dryad reassures him. We are led out onto a natural platform with little pools of water here and there; a spiral series of vine swing bridges circle up from here, joining numerous areas of canopy to look in all directions. We quickly find two that look over at Nivix and point those out to Aerani.

We talk about the explosion, and what might have happened just before. She goes quiet suddenly, thinks for a while, then says "Oh, I know!" and leads us back to the centre of the tree. There is a pathway of sorts on the outside of the trunk, by crafting shapes within the bark (without piercing it) at the places where branches meet it; it acts like a spiral staircase. We get to a centre area to see, having some food, playing music and surrounded by lizards and birds, a wild elf. He looks up. He says "Yes, I was!" - apparently he and Aerani had communicated by thought while we were down below and she was thinking.

**He was a sentry scout - his eyesight is particularly keen. He was on duty with a scouting partner of the time, and they remember clearly because it was so strange. They noticed an alarm, which jogs Aerani's memory of the same. "It felt like sudden death. We felt the life force of the planet being tugged at, like it was being channeled and redirected, like someone had changed the flow of energy in the tree roots and laylines. Everyone was on high alert. We almost missed it, in fact, because everyone was distressed and distracted - but we did just see for a moment a really bright blue-yellow beam of light erupt from the cloud cover above Nivix and shoot straight up into the night sky just for a moment before the explosion."**

**They say that it was traumatic; enough power was drawn that some of the young being formed ultimately failed to form - deaths in the nurseries that night.**

When the explosion occurred, it was followed by the light flickering, but then the beam swung around as if being emitted from something that was starting to fall or rotate. Then it went out. It didn't go out immediately, but very shortly after. It's clear, reading between the lines, that they're no fans of the Izzit - callous, selfish and uncaring of life. All we can really do is express empathy.

On the way down, we're shown the nurseries by the proud Shepherdess. There are hundreds of baby birds, or saplings, all manner of creatures really. They're cradled by essences of life itself, within the tree. Aerani tells us that these cradles yield creatures or plants, but what emerges is not know to them until it happens - it's just whatever Mat'Celesnya has breathed life into. Sometimes they are entirely new creatures - "the Simic themselves would be marvelled!"

As tactfully as we can, back with the Elder, we try to broach the topic of the militarisation. We're told that it's always been there, but been intentionally less visible. He asserts that it is a defence; there has been more need to pull those previously-more-disparate forces together of late. He says the Celesnyans feel under attack. They've sensed the "oddness" happening around. The unrest. They've decided to make their soldiers visible and ready at all times to face threats from outside and dissuade attack. They've had quiet serious Gruul raids recently, so it's not even just a deterrent - it has been required. The Rakdos have led abyssal incursions into the conclave itself. They've had to fight.

We talk about the Decamillennial. This elder Loxodon was young at the time, so he recommends asking the Voda on the question of the Golgari; who it was; whether they felt Szadek was acting alone or someone else seem to be driving things. We're led to a Voda of Verdani which is at a site of an event we're told was called the "Convocation". He's an old, gnarled Voda, who looks centuries old.

* "Aaah, I do remember, yes!" - he starts. It was meant to be a moment of pride; this Verdani was honoured to host the Convocation. They even had the three of the oldest dryads - that became the Trostani - brought here from across the planet.
* Thousands upon thousands of Celesnyans were brought. He describes it as "the joining of all minds and a purification" - a moment of great celebration. It's done every 1000 years, so the 10,000 years point was meant to be a particularly special milestone. An affirmation and return to the planet which, in return, cleansed people of their pain and grief, their transgressions; a wave of forgiveness, spreading out from the Verdani.
* A planet-wide synchronised wave of that kind needs a huge amount of energy and preparation for decades. During the Convocation, it was revealed that one of the people - who must've been part of Celesnya for at least 10-15 years by then - was actually a Golgari called **Savra**, a Devkaren elf.
* Savra had been planted there, of course. She opened a portal through which Lord Szadek appeared. He was disguised as a young awakened bush, but polymorphed back to himself on arrival - but connected to and corrupted the Convocation, trying to merge with Mat'Celesnya.
* The convocation is about forgiveness and renewal; all defences are down; so this was the reason for his timing.
* Agres Kos followed him through the portal and arrested him, but when he was physically yanked out of the convocation it caused a huge rupture in all the spiritual connections; a crack appeared, running up Vitu-Ghazi; the Trostani had to sever their own connections and fuse with the tree to heal it. Other dryads were able to save their trees, but that's about the only positive outcome from the terrible event.
* That period was far more military than now, inevitably. Vitu-Ghazi was closed for a month while damage was repaired. The whole the Treetops district and Concourse was closed.
* **If we speak to any of the minotaurs that so valiantly lead their forces, they would tell us that they had to hold back hoardes that were trying to enter the Celesnyan territory. Open war had broken out across the streets of Ravnica after the Guild Pact was destroyed; decades of turmoil**.
* Things didn't really come right until "**the implicit maze**" - this is the name for the means by which Niv Mizzet and Jace would ultimately unify all the guilds back together and Arcane Authority of the Guild Pact became invested into Jace as the Living Guild Pact.
* Niv Mizzet discovered "The implicit maze" - a failsafe - more info at the Guild Hall.

We ask about the theory of there being someone else who orchestrated the events. The Voda has no opinion on this; he has insufficient outside contact. We thank him for his time.

Gnog warns the party that we're going to try and broach the topic of the Voda. Taz sings an inspirational song *and* casts Guidance for good measure; he'll listen in and be ready to add words or address misunderstandings as best he can as the questions progress; we might just get thrown out, but hopefully at best we'll cause some minor offence but otherwise get away without pissing off everyone badly.

Gnog tries to broach the topic of the Voda. Persuasion 18 + D6->4 inspiration + D4->4 guidance + D4->3 from Fee-Ree bending luck. Total is 29. DM fiat -> +1 due to prior learning and understandings between us now... 30. The elder cannot be drawn; it seems he cannot speak of this, even if he wants; but then we hear a strange voice of three. The Trostani speak, projected through the mouths of others that have approached.

"We knew you would ask this question. We have known this is in your heart. We feel we know you and we know you do not mean us any harm. But we are under attack. Voda Diarmud was burned from within. His soul was destroyed. This you know. The moment that happened, his Verdani was done for. But you *must not* share this with anyone; it would cause such grief, such fear; it is the purpose of this heinous crime. It was to spread corruption and rot into Celesnya. We must not let this happen. This is why we fight; we fight to resist it, so they cannot spread fear and pain."

Gnog asks speaks of his commune with nature and the extraplanar connection. There's a mixture of anger, sorrow and hatred - they say "Rakdos. Rakdos killed Diarmud. He charred him from the inside out. We are sure of it." On pressed about this, they confess that it matters little anyway; they're not the retaliatory kind. But they are distrustful of just about all guilds - Rakdos, Dimir who attacked before; the Orzhov represent the accumulation of wealth in the most unnatural way and refuse to speak to us about Voda Diarmud's death. "But we have our defences up against them all."

They do share that they think there may be a more convoluted plot. The means of Voda Diarmud's destruction has been seen before; there was a rash of such murders a few decades ago, a few centuries ago and a few millennia ago. It's happened from time to time. A particularly serious one - "The Conflagration", which was known to be caused by Niv Mizzet. He's also known as "The Firemind". He deals with enemies by opening up their minds to such knowledge that they burn up from within. Perhaps this recent rash of attacks is an attempt to frame the Izzit because they are sure there was no Izzit presence nearby at the time of the recent murder - the only entity they know who could possibly portal in, murder, portal out unseen and leave a trace of the extraplanar would be either a very senior Boros angel or a very senior Rakdos demon.

*(They do not consider the possibility of another extraplanar entity, but then, they would have no way to verify such a thing).*

Gnog senses a sorrow, a sympathy and a pity wash over him, as the Loxodon Quillan holds out a hand on which a beautiful flower forms, crystallises and is handed to Gnog (a Celesnya Charm). "I'm so sorry" - he explains - the conclave is apologising; now that we know, we can never connect to the conclave again, because the knowledge would spread and so the rot would spread. We are forever cut off from joining.

This does give Gnog pause - it was an alluring experience - but he responds, "it's OK, we are here to try and help, not to hinder, not to destroy, not to disrespect; we have made mistakes and we will make more. This is the only way to protect your own; you must do it and do it without regret." Gnog hugs Quillan.

### (1000XP redistributed as 500XP and 2500XP)

We catch up with Levinia. There's a shared understanding now. She's found a way to be at peace with the Voda thanks to the ceremony. She's finished packing and invites us to help her moves boxes, which we're quite flattered by and glad to help out. We end up part of quite a big group of people helping. We all pick up a box and a bag. Between us, the entire house is packed. We head across and a little further North, deeper into the Treetops district and on higher ground. Her new home is on a Verdani that has merged with three high-rise buildings! "Oh, this is different!" she exclaims. Her room is part actual constructed apartment, part tree. It's a fascinating combination. "This is perfect!" - there is an old stove and fireplace that'll make honeymaking easier, because she was always afraid of any large fires inside the wood of her old Verdani. She's greeted by her new Voda and others from this new Verdani; they knew of her infusions and that's why they chose this location.

She thanks us. Hopes our day has been illuminating and helpful. That's an understatement. We hug. We hope we can meet again some time, perhaps in happier circumstances.

We walk West, heading towards the sunset, but with Nivix hanging ominously in the distance, lit up orange. Gnog says, "I shouldn't develop hate figures, really, but Niv Mizzet is surely behind all this bullshit, he really does sound like a dick!"

It's nearly 6pm. We had some lunch, but return to P4 and Gnog suggests we have food - their choice; together in the apartment like last night, or in that communal area from the night before. They like the idea of communal - civilisation, before we depart with the Gruul! On the way back inside, we see Aurelio! He's posting a bill. We invite him for food. We sit on the benches - he insists on paying. It's very kind of him.

We compare notes. We're all increasingly sure that there is influence behind the events that is beyond the Guilds. We warn that Nivix may be preparing to repeat its seven-year experiment. We talk of our trip North - Aurelio warns us that this is the last report he has of "**Azazael**", - an angel, one of the most fierce and righteous of the "**Firemanes**" (an echelon/class of angel; the fighty/stabby/burning-justice ones) - having gone rogue and residing in that area. Trying to douse the fires of chaos. The only justice in those parts is the might of strength. We're wandering beyond the Red Wastes, into Burning Tree territory - the most powerful tribe of the Gruul Clans. It's lead by Borborygmos - and Gnog says yeah, that's who we need to speak to.

We chat and games are played. Taz plays his new dulcimer, and after a while, pulls out the old one with confidence to try the duet - difficult with both hands usually needed on one. Performance 2+8 - he quickly realises he's not quite ready for that! And returns to just the one instrument - scrapes a 15, good enough. A woman plays his old dulcimer showing him a folk song, so they duet, back-and-forth narrative style. This goes down a storm! Performance 27. Around 9pm the shops are closing down, Boros soldiers picked up food etc., the shopkeepers join in; things are getting more drunken by about 10pm which is Aurelio's cue to leave. We bid farewell and return to our apartment.

On the way up, the caretaker/owner catches us - asking if we're sticking around. While we could rent just any room, we're emotionally invested in that one after bonding last time. He refuses to take payment though as we won't be here. He says to come back, though, when we return; we're a friend of Aurelio's, so a friend of his. If the stars align to keep the room free then so be it, but if not, that's life. He asks us to make sure we clean the room before we go - of course we will.

Usual watch order. Perception:

* Fee-Ree - 10
* Deni - 19
* Gnog - 26
* Taz - only 7! He's distracted with excitement.



## Day 28 (Riglan 65 - 6 hours shifted forward) - local day Friday (7 day week)

We pack, we shower, we clean the apartment. Gnog's in his porny/intimidating leather. Fee-Ree is in her travelling clothes, but with her mantle of spell resistance, but not in robes. It reminds us of many months ago in a dragon cult camp. How much has changed. Gnog remarks that she looks amazing. It really does suit her. With her horn staff, she looks quite frightening; her brass scales on her arms aren't covered for the first time in a long time. "It's funny isn't it - we come all this way, races that aren't necessarily known here, yet of all the places we've been I feel this is where we are most able to be ourselves."

By 8:30 we're ready to go. Gnog says that's good, because he wants to find something to hunt to present to the half-orcs as gesture of goodwill and food for the journey. This probably means North, to the tail-end of the wastes, before heading up the Transguild Promenade for our meeting. We do spend time on the comforts of home first - ringbread, coffee, the usual! Then we track North, retracing our original steps from the very first night. Foraging and hunting survival check: nat 1, luck point! -> total 23. DC was 20, so, phew.

Gnog finds some wild pigs, of all things. Gnog bags a pig! He prepares it, Fee-Ree helping to clean it up. Then he slings it over his neck, since he looks Gruul anyway so nobody will interfere. We cut across once more, skirting Skarrg, under the Promenade and up into the area above the Third District where we are to meet the half-orc band. Gnog's leather fits well. It feels good. It looks better. The pig looks macabre. His mindset is right.

A group of people are in a ring; dust is flying up; there some kind of fight. A minotaur is wrestling with a half-orc/half-ogre. We watch and see how it plays out. The minotaur surprisingly is subdued, but in one last roar, gores the half-orc under the ribs; but it is still held down and must concede. It returns dejected to its group, but it's a pecking order thing. We recognise the half-ogre; he looks at Gnog. This is **Drar**. He grins - in a challenging way - and growl at Gnog. "Maybe next time I will subdue *you*!" he shouts - Gnog says, "well, I would not take advantage of an unfair fight when you have already fought another. Perhaps we can spar on our journey." "Of course! We must! You have come to join the war party to the Burning Tree. It is good you have come. I was right about you." We swap back the necklaces that we had exchanged.

"You must travel with *us*! With us, yes! Come, come" - over at Skarrg a giant appears, pushing people aside, "If you will go, you go NOW" it shouts. "Do not come back without victory!" so Gnog says, "Well I've brought us a snack, so I suppose we should head off?"

We all start to walk North. A small war band comprising of six groups, each about 4-5 people, are moving together. Some have pack animals, such as a large yak carrying furs and presumed-treasure, raided and being probably used as offering. Our group is bigger, because there are 5 of them plus the four of us. There are some lizardfolk (Vyashino), some barbarian-like tribespeople, a rag-tag group of a couple of minotaurs (one with a missing ear and horn), one large barbarian woman and a very muscular centaur; and a group of eight feral goblins. They have bigger eyes and sharper teeth - they look more like we're used to seeing on Toril. They're a particularly raucous group, cackling and laughing, making gargling war cries, occasionally running off, running back and being followed by a huge explosion. We remember we saw this kind of thing when we first arrived - perhaps it was this very group.

It's a good pace. Initially, we're travelling through the ruined streets before the Red Wastes. The goblins do eventually settle somewhat. They do return with a huge barrel of ale, which the centaur refuses to carry; it's tied to the yak, but the load is uneven, so two of the goblins are tied together and used as a counterweight!

The air gets drier. Red moss or lichen covers patches. Overgrown scrub, blown out buildings; this is the Red Wastes proper. We see scavengers in small groups - families maybe? - amidst the ruins. Some shout threats - which are shouted back in kind! - we can see the law of strength ruling here. After a while, the centaur starts to sing, or chant. He has a good voice. It's tribal. The Vyashino join in. Taz joins in on the drums; 14 performance is good enough; Gnog is stirred by the chant and joins in - performance 19.

Some time later, a fight breaks out at the back. The human and one of the minotaurs have got into an argument over what someone said. The fights seem to be a way to dispel tension and while nothing is necessarily resolved, it avoids further conflict. The minotaur walks up to the Yak, says "My yak!" - grabs the barrel with goblins attached, takes a drink directly from it and returns it to the yak.

We are in an area of what might have been government buildings and apartments. Abandoned now. It's strange; why would they just let this fall apart? It's strange. It seems that the surface area of a whole planet is bigger than even Ravnica's population really needs. We clear an area and see a canyon ahead; a huge sinkhole has created a rift, buildings either side collapsed into it, at least 100ft down. Rapids can be heard beneath, with a waterfall on one side from an otherwise subterranean river spilling out into the chasm. Perhaps they abandoned this area due to geology!

The caravan climbs down and over the buildings - it would be quicker than walking around the long chasm - the rubble of building roofs providing a crude bridge. There are flying creatures around; drakes; people are armed. Gnog has his Claymore in open-carry but doesn't feel the need to draw it. Singing starts. "Cover your ears!" - Gnog recognises Harpies. As we leave, one person uncovers their ears too quickly and have to be tackled to the ground before the run back to their doom. We eventually get back out to the normal surface level without any losses.

While down in the chasm, Gnog notices that there seem to be buried parts of an older city. He saw hints of this in the 'canals' and chasms in D10, so there are clearly layers of history all over the place - unsurprisingly, given the age of things.

An old pool filled from an underground stream is encountered in an old abandoned plaza. A fountain once perhaps. The water is clean and everyone drinks and cleans up. There's a short siesta of sorts from the heat of the day. By 4pm we carry on - the pace is fast, matching our quickest typical march - and as it starts to go dark, we can see lights in another city area to the left, a distance away, with smoke stacks that make the air around us hazy even this far away. We notice city to the right too eventually, but we're still in this abandoned and large rubble belt.

The march continues well into dusk. People don't stop about 7:30pm when the sun has actually set. As it gets darker, the goblins get even more lively. One runs off, yells a lot, the others go, more yelling; the caravan heads that way. They've found an old square on a bit of a hill surrounded by ruined buildings. They've decided this is a good camping spot. The centaur, human and minotaurs set up next to a big tree that's pushed to and challenge anyone who wants to take the spot. Drar and his group climb up on top of a nearby building and set up there, just to place themselves higher than anyone else. The goblins decide to camp right in the middle and are taking turns lying under the beer barrel, drinking from it. The Viyashino are set up inside a crumbled nearby tower. The barbarians have set up rounded hut-like tents in the square.

We figure the centaur forces the hand of that group to a less-ideal location. We offer to set up on the building behind, to watch their back, but they don't trust us. Gnog persuasion 26, but they save face by pretend-intimidating us, asking for half the boar. We agree. We also take a good chunk of the remainder to Drar. The goblins are bullied into sharing beer over time. The viyashino have gathered bows, arrows and spears and make strange clicking calls, pointing now and then; they can see in the dark; others in the caravan aren't sure if they should join in. But we figure it's a hunting party after a moment. It seems they hunt to survive, so Gnog will join that hunt but he asks the others to stay back and defend the camp. Fee-Ree insists on coming; she's good with Lizardfolk. She's keen to study this group. Taz and Deni are left behind; Gnog is worried about them; but Taz has Message and they're both good at running!

So, one lizardfolk lookout stays; and indeed we can hear distant clicks which carry wellon the wind, as apparently it directs them. We struggle almost to keep up in the dark. We realise that the Vyashino are *very* good in the dark. Very good darkvision. No torches are lit; they're just naturals at this. Gnog has disadvantage but for being able to get up on rubble and use his long-range vision, even in the dark, to negate that a bit; perception 24. He sees a pack of wild elk. He taps his claymore to get their attention; all heads turn; he motions in the direction and they dart off. He sets it aside and pulls his longbow as they seem to be *just* in range; he takes a shot. He hits once, just, then again, decisively, taking down an elk. Fee-Ree runs toward the kill and Gnog picks up his claymore and chases after her. He's a bit faster on his feet and catches up just as she is within about 60ft of it. He puts his hand on her shoulder and say, "slow down - 'Always Check For Traps!'". We approach more cautiously. Her hands freeze slightly as a spell is prepared if need be. It's fine; once within range, she manages to get hands onto a second elk with Chill Touch, which the Viyashino are able to finish off quickly - as humane as a kill ever really can be. We have two elk. The others are allowed to escape. Gnog and Fee-Ree share the load of their kill as Fee-Ree helping carry a kill will send a good message.

Meanwhile, in the camp, Taz is watching out, sentry-style. He notices unrest in the square; the minotaurs have decided to have a tussle with the barbarians. It doesn't seem to be escalating - seems pretty much BAU for the minotaurs; establishing pecking order. The barbarians capitulate surprisingly and move their camp further away. Taz warns Deni that we should let Gnog know that persuasion or not, our time will come for this. Taz and Deni can't do that - they work from the shadows, or at a distance. It's a nerve-wracking half an hour or so before the sentry makes a whooping sound at the return of the party. The goblins appear to understand this and begin dancing and making a huge bonfire, moving the barrel out of the way of the centre of the square. Broken furniture is gleefully scavenged from nearby buildings.

The Viashino return with their kill; we carry in ours, deliberately making it a show of combined effort as a signal. The goblins set to work cooking or smoking or whatever it is they want to do. The Viashino are persuaded; they were eating it raw! Fee-Ree offers to take some raw off the hind and says she can keep that fresh for them.

It's interesting to note that the group eats _everything_ - no need for the chest it transpires - it's a survival thing. The goblins insist on properly cooking the meat, perhaps from experience and due caution of disease - as well as sense for seasoning and taste. People eat the lot. They don't know when food will come next.

Taz and Deni come down and explain the tension. At that point, the minotaur walks up and demands our catch. Gnog rages and responds, "We already saved your face by giving you half our boar. Now you demand more. You shall have none, you overstep your mark." The predictable response - "No! You gave us your boar because you were afraid of our strength! And we shall give you reason to fear it more!" and he prepares to charge; a ring is formed to give us space. **Fight club!**

* Gnog initiative: 22.

Gnog tries to show off and use unarmed strikes. It's been a while - nat 1 - misses the first but tries to make it look deliberate, follows through, grabs the visible-carried claymore and discards it, then hits the second time. D6 -> 6. It seems resilient (takes 3).

The minotaur charges and recklessly attacks. It tries to gore. Crit! Fucks sake. 4d8+4 + 4d8 because of the charge. 35 -> 17. DC14 strength saving - nat 20 - Gnog doesn't even sway. At the damage, Gnog channels Rakdos and says "well now you're just turning me on, but I'd rather play with the centaur!" - stones endurance, reduces damage by 7. 10 damage overall from a full charge crit. There's a flicker of doubt in the Minotaur's eyes.

Gnog says, "If I wanted you dead I'd have used a weapon" and swings again. He hits twice, with advantage due to the minotaur's recklessness - and hits hard - first is not quite a crit, but the second is. That's 6 damage first, we rule unarmed acts as D4+5, so with brutal critical 3d4+5 but the roll is shit and it's only 11 damage more. The minotaur reels from the blows.

It recklessly tries to gore again. Another crit! FML. 21 -> 10. Gnog responds with advantage - another crit! Weird. 3,4,3+5 -> 15; and again, WTF, another crit. Bizarre. 2,3,4+5 -> 14. (All halved by the minotaur). Given all these crits, the crowd are getting a hell of a show...

The minotaur does not slow down. It tries again, recklessly, but Gnog dodges easily - but in his response, he rolls a double 2 and a double 3! He misses too.

Same again from the minotaur. Misses similarly (same roll!). Two regular hits - 6, 6, each halved to 3. The minotaur's next hit does 12->6 damage. Gnog shouts over to the centaur, "No really, I'd rather play with you!" and hits back. Two more regular hits -> 6, 6 each half to 3. Gnog is making headway. The minotaur is enraged. Attacks and hits, 19->9. Gnog attacks then tries to grapple. Rolls 1&2 so misses, grapple - nat 20! Minotaur has to beat 30 and it can't. He's grappled, Gnog says - loudly - "You fight very well. All banter apart, your injuries sting, and you are fierce warrior, but we are here to travel north, not to vie for position. Concede!" adv. intimidation, 19+7 -> 26. Gnog doesn't want to humiliate him; the minotaur says, "Fight me with honour!".

Gnog nods and says, "A valiant call. We wrestle."

The minotaur rolls athl. 23. Gnog matches with 23. We flat-roll once more and the minotaur breaks free. Gnog decides to KO, since minotaur prefers that. We both hear energy in the crowd picking up. Gnog roars and recklessly attacks. Two more regular hits. The minotaur responds, but misses, reeling a bit. Gnog responds, hitting decisively twice more. The minotaur is almost out. It rolls away - Gnog knows a charge is coming but lets him do it, no opportunity attack; but it's easy to grab the horns and dodge it. Gnog doesn't match the strength check so he gets pushed back 10 feet, sliding in the dirt, pushed along by the minotaur. Gnog's is *loving* this. Reckless response; Gnog gets two more regular hits. The minotaur has one last attempt at a gore. It *just* catches Gnog out (matches AC) for 13 -> 6 damage. Gnog's final reckless attack is a hit, then a crit; 6 -> 3 plus 12 -> 6 damage.

The minotaur is at 1hp. Gnog growls quietly, "yield while you have honour and dignity. We can be allies. I value your strength." Flat intimidation; 23. The minotaur does not get up. Gnog steps away. The centaur and other minotaur step forward. The centaur stands to block and he is lifted away. The centaur says, "You can keep your elk!".

With the rush of endorphins, the last moments of rage and the dizziness of having cut fully loose and let his barbarian instincts run almost entirely unchecked amongst these like-minded people, Gnog can't help but let out a huge roar of victory, arms aloft, all muscles tensed. 1980s Sword & Sorcery movies, eat your heart out! The crowd is cheering. The brief, blinding moment of primal celebration passes and Gnog calms, but the impression it leaves in his memory will be long-lasting.

Drar claps Gnog on the back. "You and I are back to equal. We have both defeated him!" and more food is eaten.

Later, Gnog steps over to the minotaur camp and asks permission to speak. It is granted - "I am below you. You can do what you want. You do not need to ask for you are stronger." Gnog responds, "That may be. But all four of you and everyone else here can see the injuries I took. They can see my strength and see the damage you did. You may have had not had fortune in your recent battles, but you should take heart; you are stronger than I expected, showed valour in your actions and should it come to it, I would feel safe if you were to be fighting alongside me against a common foe."

It doesn't have direct impact - that is the nature of this group - but there is no ill will, because nobody held back. Honour was maintained. Gnog notes as leaving that the centaur is the healer of the group and is helping the minotaur; boar is brought to him, who is too injured to eat otherwise; the goblins bring a mug of ale, because even they recognise the strength. Gnog looks up at the centaur as he walks away - "I learned a lot from the Rakdos; meant what I said..." - the centaur just looks confused!

The fire dies down. People have their fill and the goblins scavenge what's left. Revelry gradually fades as alcohol takes over.

Some groups are on watch; others not; we are - sleeping on our mats under the stars.

* Fee-Ree rolls well
* Deni rolls well
* Gnog 19
* Taz 13

Nothing untoward happens, although it's something of a noisy night - both from activity within the rubble belt and noises from the distant cities surrounding us.



## Day 29 (Riglan 66 - 6 hours shifted forward) - local day Saturday (7 day week)

The sun rises on a misty morning. A thin fog hangs on the ground. The group departs - there's no cleaning up; the empty barrel, bones, anything. Only the barbarians have work to do packing up their tents. We start walking.

The mist acquires a pink/red aspect given the red moss. It's quite eerie. By the midday the sun is burning off the mist and is becoming fierce. We look for shelter. This area is completely overgrown; levelled; there's even a big crater ahead. Natural cliffs tower above entire sections that have collapsed completely, as if whole sections of land fell vertically. There are many trees and an overgrown jungle feel starts to take over. We learn that we're in the heartland of Burning Tree territory; not the Red Wastes now. Certain areas have burned out trees or scrub that look like wildfires have raged - the area is well named. While we do see some parts of civilisation sticking up out of foliage, by and large it's not visible anymore. There are strange mud pools here and there.

The caravan groups get visibly more jumpy and nervous - it seems the more closed-in terrain, perhaps coupled with a lack of familiarity, is clearly putting them on edge.

Near the evening, when going around a crater, the Viashino start making strange sounds and scatter. People are spooked and look around, climbing onto whatever nearby vantage points they can find or hiding. The goblins look to us motioning that we be quiet, then point at their feet and pull their feet up off the ground, tucking into a ball. Gnog whispers, "Get off the ground - into a tree or something!" so we climb nearby trees. The pebbles and dirt tremble and there's a low rumbling. Behind us down the track we walked, Gnog spots some kind of large rats, scurrying out from the undergrowth in a panic; but the ground under them bursts open and a huge maw devours at least six of them in one gulp before smashing back down into the ground. A long, green/brown scaled serpentine body with some fur on the top flows behind for several seconds - whatever this worm is, it must be at least a couple of hundred feet long. It slithers back under the ground. It's the largest thing Gnog's seen on Ravnica.

We wait for a while!

Eventually it's considered safe and we proceed. We later learn that it has a simple title - it is a "**Greatworm**".

We keep moving. After a time, we reach a less wild section that feels more like the rubble belt in P4; there are even a few intact buildings; the cities on either side seem to almost be meeting. There's a raised road cutting across between whatever this division or boundary is. The goblins have a wild, destructive look again. They disappear off at one point, then run back a while later, holding bags of stuff and screaming - they're being chased. Flying overhead is an angel, so the Boros are on their heels - or is it Azazael?

The goblins run past us and keep going. Everyone else ducks, hiding behind rubble and buildings; clearly the goblins are on their own! They run off and disappear into a building; a Boros patrol passes. Adv. stealth: Taz 22, Gnog 26, Deni 32, Fee-Ree high too, we hide effectively. The centaur group is spotted though, and run another way; the Boros groups splits up in pursuit. The angel shouts that it's "got the centaur". We hear sounds of crashing and banging - meanwhile our hidden groups are eyeing each other; Drar is motioning that we should stay down and not assist. Not our fight. We dodge around in short bursts of movement between buildings. The goblins cause more chaos, running back across where we are again causing more swift hiding, the Boros close behind; the Viashino keep us moving, bit by bit, beyond the combat zone. Our groups coalesce inside a building. The two minotaurs are hiding here too. They look worried. Gnog immediately says, "Where's the rest of your party?" they motion towards the other side of the square. "I'm too injured..." says one. Gnog looks to his party; "We can't break the law, but we can try to find other ways to help...?" and we try to stealth our way there - Fee-Ree casts invisibility at L4 for three of us, Deni able to pass by easily regardless. We have to get over the square. We make it over. We see that the centaur is engaged with the angel, who is laying into him, fly-bys. The centaur can't hide anywhere.

Fee-Ree suggests that Taz casts uses his dulcimer to cast invisibility on *her* so that she can cast a spell. Taz prepares the dulcimer;

Fee-Ree says she intends to cast Banishment *on the centaur*. Genius move, but then the angel will keep looking. Taz can't animate an image but could present a static illusion of the centaur dead, but he has to make his way around to the building closest to the centaur for cover. Stealth is only 15 but the angel *just* misses seeing him. We give it a try - Fee-Ree tries her L4 Banishment cast. She throws in some sorcery points to try and improve her chances of success. The centaur doesn't manage to save against the effect and is banished to a temporary dimension. Taz now reacts by triggering his prepared illusion of the centaur lying dead. The angel isn't fooled - we don't know it, but angels cannot be (True Sight).

"What trickery is this?!" and it sweeps a longsword through the illusion. Quickly, Taz casts the illusion of clattering hooves skidding on pebbles inside the building behind him. The angel flies off in that direction. The angel seems to get distracted by the goblins and heads off just in time as the centaur pops back 1 minute later. Fee-Ree quickly acts to calm him down and encourage him to find cover immediately!

(Later, as we talk about it, we learn that the angels can see through both illusion and invisibility, so those are of no use against them - the others in the group find our ignorance hilarious and we perhaps burn some of the respect we'd earned by strength, but at least we helped the centaur).

When the coast seems clear enough, everyone regroups. The goblins are nowhere to be seen and we aren't able to wait. We have to keep darting between buildings, lying low, Viashino check periodically to see if we're being followed or seen. It's a fairly harrowing push running from point to point, aiming to get through the rubble belt and back to the wilderness. It takes around half an hour to get clear of the connecting bridge region and as we descend down a collapsed wall with a fallen bridge that has torn parts of the rock wall anchor away, revealing various large caves with giant fungal growths. We're told to avoid the caves - they'll be full of Golgari! 

We make our way along ledges that look almost like they were once rigid terraces, now slumped; waterfalls and rivers, from old collapsed pipes, have smoothed rocks, cut through walls and formed rivers. It's a long way down. Eventually we emerge out of the deeper valley with the hazardous caverns, back up to a more level area, but overall we're at a lower level of ground than where we were in D10 or anywhere in between.

The cities, now widely spaced either side, each have extensions that jut out on bluffs, looking out over the plain on which we now stand. Watchtowers stand proud - yet with the ruined, rubble areas in between. The area we're on is in places marshy, between ruined pavements; offsets in the ground and tilting buildings make it look as if this was struck by an earthquake and unstable ground caused a lot of things to tilt and fall.

We are told we camp under the comparative safety of the bluff, before crossing the last of the wastes. We should arrive at the clan grounds the next day.

A camp is established within natural ledges and shallow caverns - which we realise by more recognisable areas are actually often balconies or windows into what must have been grand palaces once, now collapsed inside. It's a dramatic vista, if a confusing and somewhat melancholy one.

Rocks fall from above; we see vines and ropes lowered, dangling down. Goblins. Somehow, they evaded capture and found us, despite the very difficult terrain. They're unfortunately down one member. They couldn't find him; they've left clues, but don't know if he'll return. They still have their ill-gotten gains! There are sacks of pilfered valuables.

Gnog sees birds. Almost dinosaurs, reptilian; they roost in these cliffs. Gnog tries to approach via ritual to talk to it. Persuasion 24; when bribed with food, it will search. Gnog has to do his beast sense ritual and show the bird an example goblin - goblin in question none too impressed! - "one of these we've lost, we want to bring it back, but alive because fresh meat is better!" - it leaps off the side of the building and soars up.

Gnog for 10 minutes flies with the bird. He's not done that in a long time. The view is predictably crazy. It's as if there was a fault line running from here to the sinkhole we went past a while ago; a section of city has slid down and others have scraped past each other. In the ten minutes the sensing lasts, Gnog sees no goblin, so disconnects and figures that it's a long but if the bird can find their friend, so be it.

The sun is setting; our cliff faces it. It disappears behind what aren't distant mountains, as Gnog thought; it's a skyline of more distant city. It's almost impossible to comprehend the sheer scale of this world, but it's also clear that significant chunks of the planet are derelict. The entire planet has in theory been built over, but not all inhabited simultaneously.

Later that evening, around 9pm, the centaur comes over to thank Fee-Ree and Taz. It starts to speak of the old gods - to thank them for placing us in his path. He talks about primeval gods; "We saw one of the gods' children today - the Greatworm." Gnog asks to hear more about them. They used to rule Ravnica, roaming free; free to wander over their dominion, the embodiments of the spirits of Wild and Beast. The centaur turns out to be a druid, albeit one we find hard to recognise; he's much more primeval, a sort of druid-barbarian combo. Gnog is somewhat reminded in the talk of old gods but understanding of the wild, of the shaman at Oyaviggaton.

"Ah yes," says the centaur, "So you do understand about the, I guess you call them, spirits. We call them the gods of the old ways, before the City of Ravnica arose. Before the Guild Pact. The old tales say that Ravnica was just a city, and much of the planet was free; Beast, Spirit and Wild forces were free to change the world, to transform and evolve, to rise and to fall. Those gods are still here, but we have to leave the strictures of civilisation to hear what they say. They speak to us. **Ilharg** - the Razeboar - will see this world returned to them. The old ways. We are headed to a great clan gathering. **Boboremos, head of the Burning Tree Clan, is very strong, but is a fool! He does not listen to those of the old ways. He thinks he knows better. We are meeting the Old Druids there, the great shamans, who will show him he is wrong.** If a fight breaks out, if Boboremos tries to suppress or subdue the tribes of the old ways, you will know from this mark" - and he shows us a tattoo/branding etched into his hide so we can recognise who is who. It seems there are two sides here. "I tell you this so you are not trampled underfoot. So Ilharg does not pound you into the dirt. For you have been kind to me. I tell you this to be kind to you." He makes a sort of tribal gesture of respect which we try to mimic in return; he returns to his camp.

Watch is the usual order:

* Fee-Ree 11
* Deni 21
* Gnog 11
* Taz 16

Taz is standing on an ex-balcony edge on watch. He hears, to his shock and surprise, yells and screams from above. He sees small burning balls, screaming, hurtling off the cliff above. He doesn't have time to see what they are. About five have come down; there is commotion and clattering from above. Taz wakes Gnog. Not much he can do down here, so he has to wake Fee-Ree to see if we can get any eyes up there via Fly. She casts it on herself and flies up to investigate - Gnog is thinking she'll just peek over the edge and let us know if we need to get involved, but - Gnog, perception 21 - **there are massive explosions happening above shortly after**! Gnog hurriedly wakes Deni and we try to run up somehow on old stairwells or ledges. It takes a while, but we're able to scale up to get to the top of what is really just a building.

At the top, we see the top floor - well, now, the ground, stretching away around us, is burning. **Fee-Ree is locked in battle with an angel!** Her and the angel fly at about 20-something feet up; behind us is a 100ft drop for the full height of the cliff that we had camped quite high within.

With horror, we realise that the goblins hadn't camped on the cliff with the others as we thought; we realise what the burning things Taz saw were. Five dead then, and up top, we see another four, though we don't know who are because we were sure the various parties were all on the cliff. We see that we've been beaten up here by Viashino and even Drur.

We run in to help. Initiative:

* Taz: 21
* Deni: 11
* Gnog: 9
* Fee-Ree: 3

Taz swears, for the first time we've ever heard it - Gnog's a bad influence - and casts L3 (!) Armour on himself immediately upon seeing the angel. He shouts, "Fee-Ree is in danger and needs our help!" - as if we didn't know - and starts to move forward, shouting encouraging words to try and help inspire Fee-Ree in battle.

Deni takes aim at the angel. It's close but she just hits, the angel whipping around to look back - she's on fire; a crown of flame and eyes aflame. That *must* be the rogue, Azazael - but very distressingly, we see another angel, who appears to be subservient. Deni does a solid 40 damage.

Gnog is up. There are two strange elemental-like creatures, flaming and angry, one of whom is attacking Drur. There are also two large flying creatures - like feathered drakes. Gnog insight 15; Gnog figures that this is *not* an Azorious event! He hopes that anything goes in battle. He rages and leaps at the nearer drake-like creature, but keeps an eye on Drur to see if he's got his strange fire creature in hand. Gnog strikes recklessly with the claymore; a total of 23 damage and it's poisoned. He hits again; the damage and poison are surprisingly enough to take it down, with 19 damage overall. Gnog's quite surprised; he has enough movement to flank the creature attacking Drur.

That very creature glows even brighter with fire. Bright light is emitted as it flares. Gnog is almost blinded - by luck, he's distracted by something and glances away just in time - but Drur roars in distress as the light blinds him. The creature attacks Gnog, taking advantage of Gnog's reckless attack earlier; it hits once. Only 3 damage.

Another one of the "flying drakes" shrieks and flies towards one of the Viashino, talons and horns at the ready. It does a horrific 34 damage, the Viyashino falling from the wall it was on, unconscious. The creature perches on a wall behind. The second elemental creature, seeing Gnog in melee with its counterpart, runs up and flares again right next to him. Gnog, wisdom saving; 19; Gnog is ready for it and averts his gaze before risking being blinded. The creature attacks, missing the first and somehow critically hitting the second time but only for 9->4 damage.

Fee-Ree is in a fight for her life. She never wants to be in melee with anyone, and here she is, flying, grappling with a flaming rogue angel. In near-desperation, stacking all the sorcery magic on top she can, she tries Banishment; despite her attempts to gain advantage, the angel's inherent magic resistance cancels much out and it resists the attempt. In horror Taz sees it looking like it will resist the attempt; he is *just* in range to distract with Silvery Barbs at the critical moment. The angel temporarily vanishes. Fee-Ree flies down in relief, landing a distance away. We can see that she's quite injured.

The other angel acts. It flies *very* fast (90ft) and tries a fly-by attack; but on the way, it yells out, "WE MUST PROTECT AZAZAEL! ALL CELESTIALS, TAKE DOWN THAT WITCH!" - this inspires the flying drake and the two elementals. It swings on its fly-by with a radiant burning sword; Fee-Ree reacts with a Shield to deflect one attack but unfortunately another still finds its mark, dealing 8 slashing and 4d8 (!) -> 21 radiant. She tries to hold her spell; but even with her inspiration, she rolls a 1 and 2, yielding a total of 11; a 1 and a 3 for the bardic inspiration is not enough either. **The spell fails**. The angel flies over to the reappeared Azazael. "Agents of chaos and evil, you rampage and destroy the city; you must be cleansed" - etc. etc.

Two Viashino run forward and start throwing javelins at the flying drake. One hits. 

Taz fires two eldritch blasts at the lesser angel, hitting twice but very low damage rolls - 7 and 9 (d10 roll 2 and 4). He tries to re-inspire Fee-Ree. Deni isn't sure what to do, eventually running sideways to get a better view and attacking the drake too, with sneak attack damage because it was engaged with another viashino. She gets in a hit, for 45 damage, taking it down. She runs up to some rubble for cover then tries to gain insight on the lesser angel Taz just struck; she is successful.

Gnog attacks the elemental that is between him and Drur. He misses wildly on the first swing; two natural 1s. The second hits but only for 15 damage; there is no poison effect at all. At this, Gnog stows the claymore. The creature fights back, missing twice; but then the second one tries; it also misses; however, battlefield inspiration gives them a boost and the misses just scrape as hits in two cases. Gnog takes an additional 13->6 and 8->4 damage.

Fee-Ree casts L5 equivalent-of-Bigby's-Hand. It appears next to the two angels; we all see it as a shimmering, translucent platinum claw. She tries to grapple Azazael - the Hand has a strength of 26, so +8, and a size difference confers a strength advantage; she brings a total strength check of 23, Azazael only responding with a push-back of 21. The grapple works. She gets it to clench, doing 14 *non-magical* damage, which only causes half that damage. She beats a hasty retreat.

Azazael launches a *sixth level* fireball centred on two Viashino and Fee-Ree. It *just* misses Deni at edge of the range. 11d6! It's a strong damage roll - 41. Dex saves, DC 18. Her bardic inspiration takes her 16 up to 19 with a +3, along with gaining 8 temp HP from Taz's Mote of Potential. The damage halves and halves again to just 10; she holds the spell. Both viashino are knocked down, so now three of them are unconscious.

The other angel once again provides battlefield inspiration to the other angel and both remaining elementals, then flies down to attack Deni. Miss and hit, which Taz tries to deflect with Silvery Barbs; this makes it miss; it flies away, returning to Azazael's side.

Taz tries to hit the angel again, but only once and only for 8 (d10->3). He casts Healing Word as a bonus action at the first Viashino that was knocked down. At least this rolls well - max possible, 9 restored. An angry Deni tales aim and hits the battlefield angel upon whom she has the prior insight. She does 37 damage. It looks surprisingly badly injured.

Gnog pulls out Stormbringer and swings again at the creature between him and Drur. He hits once; only 16 damage, of which d12->3 lightning, which does affect it. He is about to try again, but is surprised to see Drur, in between Gnog's swings, reacting and attacking too; Drur hits for 10 more. That takes it out! Drur moves to flank the other elemental; Gnog changes target and swings again; he almost misses (rolls a 2 and 3!) so burns another luck point for a decisive hit and 23 total damage. The creature attacks Drur, getting one hit; 14 damage.

Fee-Ree uses her bonus action to release and then punch (!) Azazael. She has to blow Tides Of Chaos, but does 16 force damage which the angel seems to take all of. As a main action she casts Chill Touch on Azazael via her cantrip, hitting and dealing 12 necrotic. Again, this seems to take full effect.

Azazael responds. She explodes in a fire of fury; L5 Guiding Bolt is cast at Deni, which hits (8d6 radiant). A very high roll - 34 damage; Deni dodges the worst of it, taking 17, but other people will find it easier to hit Deni with attacks for a while until the spell's residual aura fades. Now Azazael invokes Compelled Duel at Fee-Ree, but fortunately Fee-Ree just resists the effects. Azazael's sword bursts into flame - radiant damage - Fee-Ree wants to keep clear!

The battleforce angel repeats its inspiration then has another go at Deni, taking advantage of the Guiding Bolt's mark. Both hit, catching Taz by surprise on the first hit, so he tries to deflect with Silvery Barbs but it has no effect (mechanically, the re-rolled attack was even higher). 12+23+10+30 - 73 points of damage in a single round. Deni falls. The angel stays at her side, hovering over her with its sword, about to make another strike.

Taz shouts "Deni!" in distress and, in desperation seeing how injured the angel seems to be, burns his inspiration from their night at the apartment and tries two more attacks. He hits the angel, taking it down; he runs up to Deni and casts the best he can do - L3 Healing Word - reviving her with 15hp. Deni wastes no time - she aims and fires at Azazael, hitting for 39.

Gnog sees Deni, can't really shield her from that kind of magic, sees the angel just in range, shouts, "You've got this fire thing, right?" to Drur and launches himself recklessly into the air at Azazael; hits once for 16+5; Azazael almost is taken down, but seems to recover; Gnog is reminded of Orcish resilience. This hits for only 17 damage, but Azazael's rebound can only be used once. Both come crashing to the ground. Gnog dex save 21: He lands on top of Azazael's body, for a nice soft landing.

Drur and the revived Viashino pummel the fire elemental to the ground while Taz uses his two remaining L1 spells to revive the other two fallen Viashino.

We investigate the bodies of the angels. Gnog investigation: Dirty 20! 19+1. There's Azazael's impressive sword; it seems attuned to Azazael and not something we think we could wield. Something unusual catches his eye. Taz tries identifying it, which takes a few minutes as people metaphorically lick their wounds. The sword is attached by vow to Azazael, but the vow is corrupted somehow; it has been tampered with, as though Azazael has been tricked into saying the vow in a particular way that has - in effect - cursed him with rage and zeal. There's a bracelet charm on her wrist, which Taz recognises as the source of that vow. It like a Boros charm but when removed and examined carefully, it's not - it's Rakdos. Maybe the Celesnyans were right. Or maybe it's a frame. The act of removing the bracelet disentangles the magic and makes it easier to see the sword. It's a Sword Of The Paruns. It was given to Azazael by a Guild leader. Whoever did that presumably tricked her into saying the vow in the carefully constructed way. So the sword must've been given by Boros, but the charm is a different story. There is complex magic and interconnectivity here. We take the two things as evidence for the Boros to examine later.

The other angel had a blade which has just become a hilt. The blade itself must be magic. Taz has time for another Identify spell as people are patched up and taken back down the cliff. It's a bit of a classic, military-issue Sun Blade. We take that too, knowing that legally we need to return it to the Boros.

All of the goblins are dead. The bird had returned to its nest, so that's that. Eventually we figure out that another Viashino and the centaur were both killed, along with the human barbarian of the minotaur party; one of Drur's half-orcs too.

We're all a mess. People want to rest in this area for a full sleep. Before Gnog gets a chance to ask the Minotaurs if they want to join us, Drur has already done a blood-bond - both groups lost people - and their groups join.

While Deni and Fee-Ree sleep, Gnog and Taz short-rest then hold watch while many of the group slumber. Taz's Song Of Rest is effective, but sadly the d6 roll is only 2 - 2hp each :-/

### 3000XP; usual redistribution; 1500XP each, but 7500XP for Taz

And wouldn't you know it? A goblin arrives - the missing guy. He'd hidden until he felt it safe to move. He ends up being their sole survivor; the Viashenko take him in.



## Day 30 (Riglan 67 - 6 hours shifted forward) - local day Sunday (7 day week)

We start late after the previous battle caused so many of us to need a full rest. By about 11am, the various caravan tribes have reorganised and reaffirmed themselves. There is a schism, though; the human barbarian tribe did not come to the fight. They'd actually hidden - self-preservation; they point out they weren't the only ones; the minotaurs had too. But Drur argues that they were too injured to fight by then and the other members of their group did fight - and died. The minotaurs have already held a mourning, in their manner of the "old ways", which seems specific to their tribe; they set up a funeral pyre to send their friends to the spirit world in glory of battle. Drur and the half-orcs are quiet, but Gnog sees the pain.

By midday, we move on. Tension is unresolved. We do note that after the fight we are treated differently - we aren't tolerated, or even respected but *outsiders* anymore. We are as one. It's an interesting shift. Leaning on this, at one point, Gnog steals himself to a conversation with Drur. He says that he understands strength, but he understands knowing an enemy and when it's time to hide. Given the difficulty of the meeting that lies ahead, perhaps now is not the time to let ourselves be divided by decisions made in the heat of battle. Gnog doesn't know if the human barbarians are honourable, but he understands that people do sometimes have to make that call and it could well have been the right one for them - simply stumbling onto the battlefield as cannon fodder helps nobody. But Drur is resolute; their actions were cowardly, even if it was self-preservation; and if they were too weak to fight, then they aren't worthy of this group. That's not to say they might not grow in strength one day - what was once strong can become weak in time and vice versa. But the Gruul operate "of the moment", and at this moment, the barbarians are the weakest; they are disgraced. In a world with no rule of law, you need to know where you stand with someone.

Gnog understands. And he says that, while he might approach it differently, the Gruul way is a sensible one in this environment. And it's true - he knows where he stands with Drur now; side by side, in battle. Just for a moment back then, fighting together, he felt that bond he used to feel side by side with Garren. Drur says, "You understand, yes. People you have fought with, you carry with you, even after their death. You carry their memory and their legacy, they live within you. The bonds we form are stronger than any laws dictating ownership."

We exchange philosophies. Drur used to work in a factory, he reveals. He used to believe in that system, but he's seen far too much corruption. Gnog *completely* agrees with that - the fault of the rule of law its how susceptible it can be to corruption. Wealth becomes power, but wealth can be gained too easily by chance or inheritance and not ability. He used to love a woman, since passed, but she struggled with how laws could be circumvented, it pained her, and she always wanted to fight that system. He believes in the end she was murdered. The system would not help him, so he vowed to tear it down in her honour.

Gnog nods and says, "Everyone needs a reason. And yours is just."

"I think you will find a great many more reasons as we approach the heart of Burning Tree territory. There are many clans that make up what we call Gruul. Do not be surprised if you speak to some who don't even acknowledge the existence of the Gruul; it's an external construct, a name given to us by outsiders, a category. There is *no one Gruul* - we are the Gruul clans and there can be as much disagreement between clans as there are clans themselves."

It sounds very like Goliath society.

The ruined city starts to change. Large trees have grown up, broad, shading things. Old stone buildings are joined by rotten wooden remnants; but there are encampments, surprisingly. Canvas tents, even palisades. People live here. By mid-afternoon at the peak of the heat of the day, the group is stopped. The Viashino push to the front and start talking in their own language. After a moment, various groups of Viashino emerge, with various tattoos, dressed in hide, armed with bows. We are told that we may pass through their territory; and some of them will join us in our march. "We are now in Slizt Clan territory. Be respectful. Take nothing from this area without being offered it first. Most of all, do not take or touch their fire."

As we proceed through, we see more and more braziers burning; their nature and the way things are set up imply a link to spirituality. This race does particularly enjoy heat, too. It becomes quite a populous clan area; we see many tents and encampments, patrols atop buildings; hundreds of Viashino. A few join our group as they march on. Their area stretches for nearly half a mile before the encampments peter out, but we're told that they claim an area of about a 3 mile radius from the most populous part - hunting grounds. It'll be a while before we're clear.

An hour later, we're clear of their ground and headed up what feels like a natural hillside around 150-200ft onto a ridgeline. We get a good viewpoint from here. This feels like the margins of Precinct 4 again - a mixture of residences, commerce and rubble belt dwellers. Some beautiful trees are here in a grove, which we recognise as Verdani a couple of miles away. Dropping away in front of us is a very beautiful valley - it looks natural, with canyon sides and waterfalls plunging. It's very lush trees at the base. In the distance, rising out of the valley floor on a tilted-bed jutted out rock outcrop, is a very large but dead - charred and blackened - tree. Gnog claps Drur on the back and says, "Finally! I didn't think Ravnica had any wild nature left. This is good to see." "Only in small pockets and very hard fought!" "I would fight for such things. I *have* fought for such things."

As we descend, we see that there are still layers of very old city here. Great roots from trees have cracked and crushed foundations and walls. So, Gnog realises, sadly it is not really original; but it has at least been reclaimed and must have been so a very long time ago to have achieved its current verdant condition.

It takes about two hours to reach the charred tree. Along the way, we see more evidence of tribes here. We even see a clan of giants - proper, full size giants, 18-20ft tall. Gnog briefly wonders what Blagothkus is up to these days. There is even remnant megafauna; Rocs nesting in caves, Indrik (the brachiosaurus like creatures) and *very* large boar - they look to be 8ft from foot to shoulder. It's larger than any boar any of us have ever seen. We see a few centaur - the Zhur-Taa Clan, the minotaurs tell us; they have visited for the gathering; their own centaur companion was one of them. They have with them animals and even elementals - creatures of rock and plant.

The permanent camp in this area - a form of fort, really - is very well placed. The sides are difficult to scale and easy to push people down from. There's really only one approach, very exposed; walking up a hill towards them. Storming would be extremely hard. Aerial attacks might be a different story but otherwise it's as good a location as Gnog thinks he could ever pick.

Numerous other clans are here. It's busy. The area is large. The valley gives the impression of vast plates of rock having slid, tilted and collapsed, and the outcrop with the great burned tree is an outcrop that shows evidence of this. We note a tendency for visible strata or slopes to be orientated similarly. There's even an area that looks almost like mountains. It seems a great calamity struck here, long ago.

We find a corner to set up camp; the ground is sloping and it's tricky. Gnog survival 24. We find a crumbled rock area with a tree growing nearby that affords some flatter ground and a place to tuck underneath. It's not a prime spot - they're all taken - but that's OK. This time, we do set up a full camp, tents, fire pit and all.

A hoarde of goblins chitter and whoop as they run through the camp. Just seems to be their way. There are maybe a couple of dozen. Many other clans and groups; there is noise and action. **Gnog is surprised to be reminded of the war camp at Elturel.**

Towards the top of the rock, in what seems to be the most important area, there is a gathering area with a bonfire set; Gnog looks more closely (perception 23); people seem to be avoiding it, so he supposes that this is an area to which one must be invited. Gnog asks one of his travelling clan where Boboremos is - we're told that he always "makes an entrance". Gnog realises - Drur has never Boboremos. Gnog confides in Drur the information from the centaur - simplifying, but two major sides, perhaps - those in favour of old ways, or those in favour of change. There may be fighting. We should be on guard and watch our backs.

We settle in; the place is busy, but nothing much is happening of apparent general consequence. There's talk of a hunt but some think there's probably nothing left. There's little in camp, so we four form a hunting party; the Viashino are keen to join forces once again, though we know are chances are slim this time.

* Perception adv.: Deni 24.
* Survival adv.: Gnog, needing a luck point, but even then it's a poor roll; only 14.

The crap rolls from Gnog mean that we only manage small prey. The Viashino archers are able to get some game birds, since they seem to have been overlooked. We return to the camp, where it's busy but we don't have any kind of jobs or any routine to do. We're free to do as we wish.

There *is* the issue of the big empty space that nobody seems to want to enter. Drur isn't sure why it's not busy, nor is anyone else it seems, so there's a shared presumption perhaps. Drur hasn't done this before so is watching other people and following their lead.

We end up finding one of the shared camp fires in the area of the rock where we're set up. They seem to be mostly set up for cooking, with conversations appearing to mostly centre around catching up or the perils of their journey. Time passes; it's been about an hour. Almost every single group has lost people along the way; and every group got attacked. Assailants are numerous - Golgari, Rakdos, Boros, wild creatures and so-on. Deni later points out that there seems to be no pattern to any of it. We migrate to another shared fire and it's the same kind of story. We get no sense, either, for any measure of whether this journey was more or less dangerous this time than it was for a previous time - for those who've done it before.

Our attention, then, turns to old ways vs new, if that's the right way to describe it. Nobody seems to be talking about this 'on the ground' though; Deni points out that more listening of that nature might get us nowhere, but what about the "old druids" that the centaur mentioned? We ask the minotaurs. He points to a group that's quite distinct - not camped on the rock with the rest of us - centaurs, mostly; minotaurs, etins and more, on a separate rock down on the valley floor, amongst the megafauna.

While there is risk in venturing there after dark, there is plenty of artificial light and they've lit very large bonfires (they've basically created a small grove of their own). Reminiscent of Ketmera. Will-o-wisp like lights float in the air as we get closer. A blueish-yellow mist hugs the ground around their camp. We see the silhouettes of giants through the mist and hear the crackling of fire. We do our best to navigate the tangle of undergrowth; survival 18; we make it through unscathed and emerge to see a collection of yurts of sorts. Larger wooden structures, with hide covers and many symbols painted upon them. There's a very regal looking, commanding group of centaurs here; warriors, shamens, druids. The giants walk amongst them, half-giants too, an etin is attending to a fire; the large boars wander amongst them and the minotaurs are here too.

There is a central large bonfire. We cautiously approach the central bonfire; we are not challenged on approach; shamens and druids carry on unfazed in their activities. Some are performing ceremonial movements; a couple are getting tattoos near the fire; we feel eyes on us but nobody approaches. There's a group that looks clearly older. One centaur wears crown of antlers, sat (in that horse way that horses do). We head towards him. He looks to us and stands. Two besides him stand - they're huge, bigger than the centaur we knew before who was large already; sinewy, formidable.

Gnog introduces the party and TL;DR - we've come to learn more about the many clans of the Gruul. He says we've come to the right place and introduces himself as Speaker Kkala. The "Kk" has a distinct sound, a single consonant but not quite a 'K'. He talks of being sure of something "happening tonight"; it's a full moon; Gnog asks if he means a conjunction. No. "The sky serpent will eat the moon."

Gnog asks what might be taught about the old ways.

* The voice of the wilds.
* The law of the strong and the savage, but with reverence; spirituality.
* We forget ourselves - we forget that we're small and insignificant. Ants crawling over the planet. It is the Great Wilds, that have been suppressed, who are the true masters of this domain.
* The Wilds have been "shackled, sedated, put into slumber by all of that which corrupts and poisons the land".
* "It is our role as speakers to bring in and unite those who have even the barest spark left in them of the original fire - that fire in the centre of this world - that we might unshackle the forces, free them, let the ants of this world once again fear their true masters!"
* There are stories that are passed from one speaker to the next, for millennia. Before there was a city, before there was the Azorious and the Orzhov, before even the rise of those singing elves the Selesnya, there was a savage, wild and difficult - but *glorious* land - that **we know as Ravana** before it became Ravanica.

He asks if we've wondered out of the city before this journey? Not on the surface! He says they'll be joined by **Nikya of the old ways**, "the mightiest of us all" - she has the ability to call on the spirits of this planet; she is the key to **bringing Ilharg and the others back out of sleep**. Whooping and hollering and chanting happens at the mention of the name. Nikya will wait for the sign, then release the moon from the serpent's maw.

Boboremos is mentioned. He is strong. Perhaps the strongest. They won't predispose us to believing something. We can decide for ourselves what we think of his strength.

Then there's a gasp - "It begins!" calls someone - a sliver of a shadow starts against the moon's edge. Taz declares, with customary subtlety, "Oh look, it's an eclipse!" - but war paint is being donned. "We march to the meeting grounds!" - they march up, with us in tow. People in the main camp have noticed too; clamour starts; drums play; the goblins are dancing. Taz slings his drum around on its waist mount and taps a matching rhythm to get into the spirit of things.

The light of the moon fades more noticeably as the eclipse progresses. We've reached the meeting grounds; it's full-on party. Then there's a rumbling in the ground before we see, swinging from a ledge, a giant cyclops rippling with muscle, giant, almost no neck, boulder shoulders, massive arms, straps of leather, furs, a feathered cloak and horns fashioned into a kind of helmet, bones dangling down as if hair. We aren't sure if the horns are his or just part of the helmet. He lands in the main meeting are with a tremendous thump. He stands - some 20ft tall - grabs hold of the closest thing he can reach - a minotaur - and throws him into the crowd. Chanting starts from the front and ripples back - "Boboremos! Boboremos! Boboremos!"

He roars and looks at the moon. "You! Sky serpent! I will come for you! Nothing stands against Boboremos!" and proceeds to make various shows of strength before eventually shouting, **"I declare the meeting grounds open!"**

The crowd rushes forward. The druids are holding back. We proceed at our own pace, trying not to show favour to either school of thought.

There is a feast. It's raucous; barely controlled. But Boboremos starts talking; his voice cuts across all noise. He talks about how it has been a good season; remember those who have gone to the "hunting grounds in the sky" to forever hunt; to think about warriors glorified into the flames in the sky; "let us think of those who return their energies to the earth" and "remember our vows to each other to remain true and free".

He then calls upon various tribes to speak about whatever injustice and persecutions they've faced since last met - it's a deliberate and effective way of working people up into an angry fervour. "Have I not promised you strength?" he asks when the time seems right. He produces an orb brought to him by attendants. It looks like a globe of invulnerability. Trapped within is an angel; he smashes the globe, grabs the angel and just rips it apart right there. "I promised you freedom. We will break the shackles. We will break all of the shackles. We will destroy what they have built, such that *our* rule will return. We will rampage through their streets and tear it all down. I can lead you!"

Gnog goes to tell the elder druid that he starts to see the point about Boboremos, but they're distracted. They calmly watch the sky, waiting, only half-listening and watching Boboremos. Gnog looks up. The eclipse is now full; the moon shows only as a glowing ring around a dark disk.

Boboremos has seen it too - it's clearly timed - his big speech... He has listened to what the clans said. He brings them up, deliberately touching nerves for the deepest injustices. He doesn't promise anything specific - it's just about tearing things down. He relies clearly on his physical strength; release chaos, rampage, tear down, burn, force people to their knees. Insight on the crowd, Gnog 21 - not everyone is persuaded. There are some who are uncertain. Some look back to the druids. Gnog hopes that perhaps Drur's group - who were emphatic about not taking life to restore nature - might have held their nerve, but it's a compelling speech and physical display from Boboremos and well executed.

The druids suddenly move. Kkala has pushed his staff into the ground and others move back. The staff starts to grow up into a tree. Boboremos shouts, "Ah! We have our brothers and sisters joining us from Zhur-taa!" as he sees the tree sprout.

* **Boboremos** is **Burning Tree Clan**
* He called forward the **Gore Clan** where an Etin spoke - the two heads anmed **Ruric** and **Thar** - who had been the most savage in their attacks because they were the most assaulted; their clan seems to have monstrosities mostly - etins, ogres, etc. - misshapen, outcast, larger kin who find it hard to live in society otherwise - they've led the most destructive raids as a result, even claiming to have broken walls, dams, demolished Boros garrison buildings and smashed an Izzit library.
* He called **Scab Clan** who are the most scarred and body-modified; giant piercings of metal and bone; they have a number of giants too
* He called **Slizt Clan** - the Viashinos who followed us in after we went through heir land
* The **Bolrac Clan** - the all-giant clan we saw on the way in.
* The **Gravel Hide Clan** - one of the goblin clans.

So, now he calls upon the Zhur-taa druids. "Yes! Do join us!"

The staff-tree emerges in full, then starts to change shape. The roots spread and it seems like it's melting or flowing over the edge of the rock; people move out of the way; it starts to split open some kind of maw or portal or *something* and, forcing its way out, is a large serpent head with frills; then a second; then a third. **Gnog recognises a hydra**. Front claws push out to gain purchase on the land. Amazingly, within the space between the three necks is crouched a centaur that stands as the hydra eventually stops emerging, but stays, threatening people; the centaur walks to one side. Kkala kneels in respect. **We gather that this must be Nikya**. She's an old but still very intimidating centaur, bristly silver and greyish-brown hair in a mohawk that runs down the back of her neck into wiry plaits/braids. She is covered almost completely in swirling tattoos with various abstract animal depictions included within. She has one cloudy white eye. She wears a bone necklace that connects into horizontal rows of bones that form a kind of vest. Her centaur lower part is tattooed also, and the hide shaved into patterns above those. She carries a long spear with an ornate wooden head - half staff, half spear.

People stand to the side as she moves forward. The rest of the Zhur-taa clan follow behind, the entourage approaching Boboremos. He welcomes them - "It is always a homecoming to have Zhur-taa come to the meeting grounds. Sometimes I am not sure if you will come; I am glad that you have..." - he throws a cooked goat carcass in their direction, inviting them to feast. Nikya deflects it with her staff/spear; it lands next to her. She continues walking.

"There will be time for eating later; thank you Boboremos for your hospitality. But we are here for important things. We are reminded of the sky serpent, letting go of the moon now, that these cycles tell us of our purpose and duty to return Revina to her former glory."

Boboremos responds "Ah, you speak of these old ways; I respect your beliefs and spirituality, but it is just stories. Your stories inspire, for that I thank you, I cannot deny the power of them but they have no strength! The stories cannot break down chains that bind us or free those who have been thrown into prisons".

Nikya shakes her spear angrily. "Why do you still doubt the old ways? Why do you think they are stories? Do you think you could defeat Ilharg? If you could then by all means lead us. But you cannot stand it the path of the rampaging Razeboar anymore than you could stop the sky serpent from swallowing the moon."

They exchange words; Boboremos still acting conciliatory, perhaps knowing this will force Nikya to be less accommodating. Then Nikya says, "Ilharg demands sacrifices! Why do you not offer them?" - allegedly required for the rituals that will release these beasts. Boboremos responds, "I protect *our* people. It is one thing to be free. It is another thing entirely to be a slave to another religion."

They continue their debate. Nikya recites signs of their prophecy; the instability, guild pact being destroyed, seeping corruption of the bank and church, overstep of the Azorious with the precogs and so-on. She argues that the precogs could "euthanise the old spirits of the wild; they can find out where the live and destroy them for good". There's a threat of open and outright war between the Izzit and Selesnyans, the latter knowing that the Izzit have drawn on the life-force of the planet before and know they'll do it again.

The thing is, she's seeing all the thing we saw as part of a prophecy. So what's the prophecy? Gnog plucks up the courage and shouts out, "Nikya, remind us! Tell us! Tell us of the prophecy!"

Her other eye clouds over as she raises both hands; behind her Kkala and another druid do the same; clouds form above, crackling with electricity and rumbling thunder. Within them we see visions. A primeval world, roiling seas, exposed by crumbling cities as rents open in the ground. Heavily forested mountains rise out of these seas, upon which there are hydra, dragons, a wildfire that consumes whole tracts in the wake of a gargantuan boar with firey eyes, fire coming out of its mouth, a trail of inferno behind. The Razeboar, we presume. A greatworm comes out of the ocean; other creatures, ancient and of this world, are shown. Cities have been built over them now; oceans have been drained down low; these creatures are now rarely seen, many probably extinct. The primeval world was tamed with magic and technology. The prophecy shows the ancient creatures chained down underneath and put to sleep, but when the guild pact breaks and the balance starts to fail, the prophecy becomes due. Through sacrifice of people willing to give their lives for this prophecy, Nikya and the druids will be able to reach through the veil and release these chains - really, a magic lock, which if destroyed would cause these things to emerge and lay waste to all cities.

There is a surprising reaction from some Gruul. They look like they didn't realise this was what it was about - raid, steal, have parties, live outside the law - but not *literally* burning it all down, destroying *everything* physically - the entire city planet of Ravnica. They want more of the wilds... But a penny is dropping for some that for this to happen, millions - billions? - must die. There suddenly seem to be two options, but both proposing different paths to the same act of total destruction.

**For ourselves, our penny drops. The guilds all contribute energy through the planetary laylines to keep these magic locks in place. If the Izzet draw too much power, it'd break the lock, but Niv Mizzet would never be so foolish. However, she believes that power of blood sacrifices would allow them to break the locks when the Izzet draw power and weaken them.**

So Boboremos' plan might try to destroy all cities, but would be in battle, controlled, taking time, people living or dying by their strength. Nikya's plan would cause near-instant planetary wide devastation, killing indiscriminately; it'd probably kill all, or nearly all Gruul, just really a question of pure luck on who lives or dies.

The Scab clan now send a challenger - the giant **Sorn**. If Boboremos doesn't have the stomach for "what must be done", then they will take over. The giant actually accuses Boboremos of another plan; he's only going to take enough to make a kingdom, but would then enter an agreement, a politician's agreement, with the other Guilds to divide up land. Gnog thinks that unless Boboremos is entirely a madman - which isn't beyond possibility - then this sounds very likely. The giant accuses Boboremos of meeting guild representatives too - which given how we came to hear the name, sounds like a dead-certain fact. Boboremos is accused of brokering for power.

People draw back to give room for the fight. Nikya steps to the edge of the ring and creates a ring of fire around them. Nobody can interfere.

People from various clans gather around; opposition clans eye each other warily - the outcome could upend the whole hierarchy here. Gnog answers a question from Fee-Ree - yes, he does have the library book; she doesn't plan on us walking home and we might need a quick exit.

Boboremos kicks in an arc to establish a perimeter of his reach, daring the giant to enter. Boboremos' stance looks aggressive, but Taz - history 21 - has some preloaded knowledge about martial theory and recognises that outwardly Boboremos looks aggressive, it is in reality defensive. "He doesn't intend to make the first move!" whispers Taz. Gnog gets the library book from the bag of holding, hoping nobody notices him doing it, and keeps it ready, in case Fee-Ree needs to arrange a quick exit!

Sorn decides, as a show of force, to take off his shoulder pauldrons. Less protection, more flexibility. He cracks his knuckles and snarls. Boboremos is reared up - perhaps to keep his eye elevated and safer - but this exposes his belly. Sorn charges, thinking he sees an opening. Boboremos is ready. He steps slightly to the side and uses Sorn's own momentum to throw him to the ground; then he lands his weight, via his knee, onto the back of Sorn's leg.

Sorn whips around, throwing Boboremos off who staggers back a little a few steps; this opens up a gap which Sorn uses in a pounce, trying to leap up and go for his face. Boboremos' helmet is ripped off and thrown towards the wall of fire. There are no horns underneath - those were part of the helmet. Boboremos tries to grab Sorn's head and knee him in the belly. Wrestling and heavy punching continues. Punches are thrown with such force that when they miss, the swing is carried by momentum and the other always tries to use that to get their opponent onto the ground. We realise it's a fight of submission - these two are so hardy, without weapons, that killing would be almost impossible.

After a full minute, they step apart from each other to catch breath. Sorn stands up and is bristling with muscle - somehow looking drier and more solid. Gnog wonders if this is a rage-like aspect, or an Orc-like bounce back; it's a second wind. Boboremos sees it - and seems to have that same moment of centring and improbably-increasing muscularity. It seems Boboremos has martial skill; he's a barbarian but isn't raging and shows tactics. That would require training. How did he acquire that? The other fighters we've seen so far are Gnog-style raging barbarians - frequently, using strength over finesse. But not so Boboremos.

Sorn seems to be gaining confidence and building in strength - or is it desperation? - as his attacks get heavier, but also less controlled and more frenzied. Boboremos does not match. If anything, he gets more calculated, side-stepping and blocking more, conserving energy. We deduce it's a technique to tire out Sorn, holding things in reserve. Interestingly, the mood of onlookers sours somewhat at this - even his own clan is clamouring, "Finish him! Show the strength!" - Boboremos is clearly considering when to make a decisive strike, but must be mentally balancing this against the situation's complex politics.

In the third round of this next minute, it seems he sees a chance; attacking, stepping sideways, attacking, stepping sideways again; Gnog notices a sudden and unexpected predictably - a ruse! - which Sorn falls for. Boboremos at the last moment steps out of reach, and in one motion, trips Sorn, grabs him, then swings *himself* over Sorn, flipping to land himself on Sorn's back. He brings his two fists onto Sorn's shoulder, perhaps trying to dislocate it. Sorn howls in pain; it certainly did *something*. Boboremos jumps down and Sorn stands, but his arm is visibly swelling. In rage Sorn swipes again; Boboremos tries to use this to get to the other arm, apparently trying to bend it - and we hear an unpleasant and loud snapping noise. Sorn can't use his arms now, but still tries to kick and charge, but just gets thrown down; he lands on his dislocated arm, cries in pain; he can't fight on; he knows it.

Sorn's clan calls for the fire wall to be lowered, seeing how injured Sorn is. Boboremos roars at this - "IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WHO DARES CHALLENGE THE BURNING TREE CLAN? Do so now before the moon is showing her face in full again - or hold your tongue and know your place!"

Nobody answers. Heads are lowered. Nikya looks resolved. Not defeated; she will have to bide her time... Maybe next time. Sorn is pulled out and healers are called to set his bone.

The crowd now cheers, because it was a good fight. Sorn is not disgraced, neither is his clan - nobody loses honour - the battle was good, it was a clean fight; it's just re-establishing hierarchy. Relaxing a little, Gnog returns the library book to the Bag Of Holding. The druids withdraw to the edge of camp.

The moon reappears fully. Nikya returns to the hydra within the tree-staff; the hydra withdraws and the portal closes. Nikya isn't done. She looks around - "Heed my words. These portents - whether you believe them or not - the time will come - you may follow this - this _showman_ to your doom; or you can join us as we restore Ravina to its rightful state. You know in your hearts what to do. You need only find the courage and spirit to see it through. Those of you who find that fighting spirit? You know where to find me." - her and the druids ride off, leaving the valley entirely. Gnog notes some of the megafauna leaving with them.

There is some division sown within the camp - but most are wrapped up in the fervour of the celebration. It now enters full swing. It's just a party.

Gnog looks at the others and says, "Well, now or never!" - and approaches Boboremos, sat upon a huge stone chair. Getting close, even the seated Boboremos' knees reach Gnog's chest - he's really huge. "Mighty Boboremos, my name is Gnog" - "Welcome Gnog. I see this is your first?" - "Yes, it is; I wondered, may we have a brief audience with you?" - "Speak, small giant! The audience you want is happening now!"

Gnog says, "We are aware of the signs and portents, as I am sure are you. There is truth in what Nikya said, but I fear, while well intentioned, the solution is rash. Yours seems the more manageable and survivable plan for your people."

"I know that. What do _you_ want?"

Gnog answers, "We are tasked with trying to understand and if possible right the balance that is going wrong." "But then you understand - we do not seek balance" "No, nobody does; and it is that swing, that pressure from side to side, that holds this planet together. I would like to see much of what you describe come true." "But not all?" "I do not want to see millions die in its pursuit." "But millions die one way or another. We want their deaths to mean something. We want to release them from the lies that would kill them slowly and give them a death that they can choose and see." "I think you are more astute in your understanding of the ways of the world than it is perhaps always wise to show in meetings such as these. And so, in that wisdom, I think you know that in my own heart I find it hard to argue with much of what you say. I am sworn to other paths, and I try to help my friends; the main reason for this audience is a simple one. Other guilds, whether you are opposed to them or aligned with them, have made it clear - the Gruul are every bit as important as any other. But nobody is listening to you. *I* am listening. *I* will convey any messages, intents, or take any actions that might assist - if it lies on my path."

"You have heard the message tonight. Those who come to the serpent watching hear the real message. It is not what *I* say that is the message. Do you understand, small giant?" "I think so" "I merely speak of my way; it is not the only way; my way is not the threat, as much as Ravnica would see me as the destroyer - the unthinking, unreasoning scourge. You understand, there is one far more destructive than I." "Yes, and it's not Nikya. It's Nivm Isset, but I don't think he even knows it. And my challenge is to make him realise that somehow."

"You have heard much tonight, I believe. You have learned more than most. You will know more about the truth than the Azorious future seekers, the spies of the Dimir, the scientists in their Simic chambers with their Guardian project... Ah - you do not know of it?" "Ten clans is a lot to get through! We're only through a few!" "...indeed... Or the smartest of the experimenters with their Mizium, captured lightning. You came to listen. Tell me you heard?"

Gnog says, "I did more than that. I learned."

"Then you can take this message that you have heard."

Gnog says, "Thank you. We will depart. For what it's worth, of all the strange peoples on this world, your many clans are closer to my heart than you might ever know. In a different life, I would have been one of you."

"You are always welcome to return. One can live more than one life between birth and death."

Gnog says, "Oh, that is true. But I have had fortune beyond reckoning in my time; and I find myself amongst friends and family that I care about more than anything else, for whom I'd lay down my life in a heartbeat."

He leans forward and puts a huge hand on Gnog's shoulder. "Then, Gnog, you have my sympathy and my pity, for I understand of what you speak - it only makes the loss that much greater. The more you hold something dear, the more painful it is when it is taken from you. But we would have it no other way since to do so would be to deny life. To deny self."

Gnog says, "I don't know your history. I can only sense glimpses of pain. I heard the stories here. They break the heart. But I would say this - and I speak only of myself - one of the family of whom I speak already departed; he is already lost; I feel that; but I could trade one minute of the time we spent together, to lessen that feeling. It, to me, is and always will be worth it."

"Then you know a source of strength."

Gnog says, "Yes. They are for me."

"Then go and live your life fully and truly. That is all one can ever ask and that is the most one can ever give."

Gnog says, "Die gloriously in battle, might Boboremos."

Others arrive to talk and we use the opporunity to get back to camp. We pack, and Gnog briefly searches just to see if he can spot Drur. By fortune, Drur is nearby, on the edge of festivities, watching, alone. The rest of his clan is in amongst the throng.

Gnog approaches; he acknowledges. "Your tribe does well. It enjoys the night. You seem troubled."

"I am not troubled! I am merely watching."

Gnog says, "We have to leave. We have much work to do. We intended to travel by magical means, but the path is dangerous and I would happily walk by your side if you would like our strength to aid your own on the return."

"I thank you for your heart and courage. Our path does not lead back to Skarrg, but deeper into the badlands. We go in search of answers. We go to find the Zhur-Taa. We go to hear more about what they have to say; we have taken in members to our tribe who walk a path close to hers. It is might responsibility to hear what she has to say, or we will have welcomed people in without making them one of ours. If it is the wrong path, then I as leader bear the responsibility to guide them back."

"They have a wise leader. You must explore all points of view. I wish you well, good health and good battles."

"Safe journey to you." Drur takes his necklace and Gnog notices a couple of additions - from the centaur druid. He says, "Before you go - these should be added to yours, that you would remember our journey into the wilderness together." He takes three of the bones and teeth and adds them to Gnog's dragon tooth necklace.

"Thank you. That is good." and turns to head back to camp.

We pack; we descend off the tilted rock, to find an out-of-sight corner and Gnog gives Fee-Ree the library book. He's a little quiet and introspective. "Time to go!" he says. We hold hands; Fee-Ree casts Teleport. A moment later, we're in the library - in between the shelves. There's gap. The book goes there. Gnog says, "It's lucky we didn't arrive *in* the gap in the shelving unit!" We realise that it's quite interesting - the teleport goes to where the object "belongs", but how that is determined is unclear.

**(Later, Deni notes that Boboremos deliberately avoided explicitly stating a message. It's up to us to decide. Why is that? Does he not know? Is that his embodiment of chaos? To define the message would be to deny the possibility of it being delivered incorrectly - to introduce order).**

It's late - 3am. We're in the library. They have rooms. We see if there's anyone in the office; it's staffed, so we spend a zino and get a place crash. We're given a purple and black floral design to hang on the door - they say this will stop anyone coming in early in the morning. This is very thoughtful and we thank them. Say what you like about the Dimir, they have a sense of hospitality.

We get to the room and people get ready for bed. Gnog just says, "I'll miss all that. I was a different version of me." "We could have wondered back on foot..." offers Fee-Ree. "No, this was the right call - we were lucky - we had groups around us, and some of them died instead of us. We wouldn't have known about the greatworm and who knows what else might've caught us out. Without Drur's group, we'd have been weaker going home and it wasn't worth the risk."

Gnog knows it's not real life - not *his* real life. It's the after-party comedown. But part of him wishes it could be, perhaps.

(END OF PART 10 - Part 11 next)
